acoustic signal roundtrip travel time in sea water	The quantity with standard name acoustic_signal_roundtrip_travel_time_in_sea_water is the time taken for an acoustic signal to propagate from the emitting instrument to a reflecting surface and back again to the instrument. In the case of an instrument based on the sea floor and measuring the roundtrip time to the sea surface, the data are commonly used as a measure of ocean heat content.
aerodynamic particle diameter	The diameter of a spherical particle with density 1000 kg m-3 having the same aerodynamic properties as the particles in question.
aerodynamic resistance	"The ""aerodynamic_resistance"" is the resistance to mixing through the boundary layer toward the surface by means of the dominant process, turbulent transport. Reference: Wesely, M. L., 1989,  doi:10.1016/0004-6981(89)90153-4."
age of sea ice	"""Age of sea ice"" means the length of time elapsed since the ice formed."
age of stratospheric air	"""Age of stratospheric air"" means an estimate of the time since a parcel of stratospheric air was last in contact with the troposphere."
age of surface snow	"""Age of surface snow"" means the length of time elapsed since the snow accumulated on the earth's surface. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
air potential temperature	Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure.
air pressure	Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation.
air pressure anomaly	"The term ""anomaly"" means difference from climatology. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
air pressure at cloud base	"The phrase ""cloud_base"" refers to the base of the lowest cloud. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
air pressure at cloud top	"The phrase ""cloud_top"" refers to the top of the highest cloud. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
air pressure at convective cloud base	"The phrase ""cloud_base"" refers to the base of the lowest cloud. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
air pressure at convective cloud top	"The phrase ""cloud_top"" refers to the top of the highest cloud. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
air pressure at freezing level	Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation.
air pressure at mean sea level	"Air pressure at sea level is the quantity often abbreviated as MSLP or PMSL. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals."
air pressure at top of atmosphere model	"""Top of atmosphere model"" means the upper boundary of the top layer of an atmosphere model. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
air temperature	Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.
air temperature anomaly	"""anomaly"" means difference from climatology. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
air temperature at cloud top	cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.
air temperature at effective cloud top defined by infrared radiation	"The ""effective cloud top defined by infrared radiation"" is (approximately) the geometric height above the surface that is one optical depth at infrared wavelengths (in the region of 11 micrometers) below the cloud top that would be detected by visible and lidar techniques. Reference: Minnis, P. et al 2011 CERES Edition-2 Cloud Property Retrievals Using TRMM VIRS and Terra and Aqua MODIS Data x2014; Part I: Algorithms IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 49(11), 4374-4400. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TGRS.2011.2144601."
air temperature lapse rate	Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. A lapse rate is the negative derivative of a quantity with respect to increasing height above the surface, or the (positive) derivative with respect to increasing depth.
air temperature threshold	Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. Air temperature excess and deficit are calculated relative to the air temperature threshold.
altimeter range	"An altimeter operates by sending out a short pulse of radiation and measuring the time required for the pulse to return from the sea surface; this measurement is used to calculate the distance between the instrument and the sea surface.  That measurement is called the ""altimeter range"" and does not include any range corrections."
altimeter range correction due to dry troposphere	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.   To apply the altimeter range correction it must be added to the quantity with standard name altimeter_range.  ""Correction_due_to_dry_troposphere"" means a correction for dry gases in the troposphere, i.e. excluding the effect of liquid water.  Additional altimeter range corrections are given by the quantities with standard names altimeter_range_correction_due_to_wet_troposphere, altimeter_range_correction_due_to_ionosphere, sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_at_low_frequency and sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_and_wind_at_high_frequency."
altimeter range correction due to ionosphere	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.   To apply the altimeter range correction it must be added to the quantity with standard name altimeter_range.  ""Correction_due_to_ionosphere"" means a correction for the atmosphere's electron content in the ionosphere. Additional altimeter range corrections are given by the quantities with standard names altimeter_range_correction_due_to_wet_troposphere, altimeter_range_correction_due_to_dry_troposphere, sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_at_low_frequency and sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_and_wind_at_high_frequency."
altimeter range correction due to wet troposphere	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.   To apply the altimeter range correction it must be added to the quantity with standard name altimeter_range.  ""Correction_due_to_wet_troposphere"" means a correction for the effect of liquid water in the troposphere.  Additional altimeter range corrections are given by the quantities with standard names altimeter_range_correction_due_to_dry_troposphere, altimeter_range_correction_due_to_ionosphere, sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_at_low_frequency and sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_and_wind_at_high_frequency."
altitude	Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level.
altitude at top of atmosphere model	"Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level. ""Top of atmosphere model"" means the upper boundary of the top layer of an atmosphere model."
altitude at top of dry convection	Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level.
ambient aerosol particle diameter	"""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
amplitude of global average sea level change	"Global average sea level change is due to change in volume of the water in the ocean, caused by mass and/or density change, or to change in the volume of the ocean basins, caused by tectonics etc. It is sometimes called ""eustatic"", which is a term that also has other definitions. It differs from the change in the global average sea surface height relative to the centre of the Earth by the global average vertical movement of the ocean floor. Zero sea level change is an arbitrary level. Amplitude is the magnitude of a wave modelled by a sinusoidal function. A coordinate variable of harmonic_period should be used to specify the period of the sinusoidal wave. Because global average sea level change quantifies the change in volume of the world ocean, it is not calculated necessarily by considering local changes in mean sea level."
angle of emergence	The angle of emergence is that between the direction of a beam of radiation emerging from the surface of a medium and the normal to that surface.
angle of incidence	The angle of incidence is that between the direction of approach of a beam of radiation toward a surface and the normal to that surface.
angle of rotation from east to x	The quantity with standard name angle_of_rotation_from_east_to_x is the angle, anticlockwise reckoned positive, between due East and (dr/di)jk, where r(i,j,k) is the vector 3D position of the point with coordinate indices (i,j,k).  It could be used for rotating vector fields between model space and latitude-longitude space.
angle of rotation from east to y	The quantity with standard name angle_of_rotation_from_east_to_y is the angle, anticlockwise reckoned positive, between due East and (dr/dj)ik, where r(i,j,k) is the vector 3D position of the point with coordinate indices (i,j,k).  It could be used for rotating vector fields between model space and latitude-longitude space.
angle of rotation from solar azimuth to platform azimuth	"Standard names for ""platform"" describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. An angle of rotation is reckoned positive in the anticlockwise direction. The ""angle_of_rotation_from_solar_azimuth_to_platform_azimuth"" is the angle of rotation between the solar azimuth angle and the platform azimuth angle. Solar azimuth angle is the horizontal angle between the line of sight from the observation point to the sun and a reference direction at the observation point, which is often due north. The angle is measured clockwise, starting from the reference direction. Platform azimuth angle is the horizontal angle between the line of sight from the observation point to the platform and a reference direction at the observation point, which is often due north. The angle is measured clockwise, starting from the reference direction."
angstrom exponent of ambient aerosol in air	"The ""Angstrom exponent"" appears in the formula relating aerosol optical thickness to the wavelength of incident radiation: T(lambda) = T(lambda0) * [lambda/lambda0] ** (-1 * alpha) where alpha is the Angstrom exponent, lambda is the wavelength of incident radiation, lambda0 is a reference wavelength, T(lambda) and T(lambda0) are the values of aerosol optical thickness at wavelengths lambda and lambda0, respectively. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
apparent oxygen utilization	Apparent Oxygen Utilization (AOU) is the difference between measured dissolved oxygen concentration in water, and the equilibrium saturation concentration of dissolved oxygen in water with the same physical and chemical properties. Reference: Broecker, W. S. and T. H. Peng (1982), Tracers in the Sea, Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, Palisades, N. Y.
area fraction	"""Area fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area. To specify which area is quantified by a variable of ""area_fraction"", provide a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable of ""area_type"". Alternatively, if one is defined, use a more specific standard name of ""X_area_fraction"" for the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X."
area fraction below surface	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The fraction of horizontal area where the surface specified by the axes other than horizontal axes, for instance an isobaric surface, is below the (ground or sea) surface."
area fraction of day defined by solar zenith angle	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. A coordinate variable of solar_zenith_angle indicating the day extent should be specified."
area fraction of night defined by solar zenith angle	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. A coordinate variable of solar_zenith_angle indicating the night extent should be specified."
area fraction of twilight defined by solar zenith angle	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. A coordinate variable of solar_zenith_angle indicating the twilight extent should be specified."
area type	A variable with the standard name of area_type contains strings which indicate the nature of the surface e.g. land, sea, sea_ice. These strings are standardised.  Values must be taken from the area_type table.
atmosphere absolute vorticity	Absolute vorticity is the sum of relative vorticity and the upward component of vorticity due to the Earth's rotation.
atmosphere absorption optical thickness due to ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Absorption optical thickness"" means that part of the atmosphere optical thickness that is caused by the absorption of incident radiation. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere absorption optical thickness due to black carbon ambient aerosol	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path.  A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Absorption optical thickness"" means that part of the atmosphere optical thickness that is caused by the absorption of incident radiation. ""Aerosol"" means the suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets).  ""Ambient aerosol"" is aerosol that has taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere absorption optical thickness due to dust ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Absorption optical thickness"" means that part of the atmosphere optical thickness that is caused by the absorption of incident radiation. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere absorption optical thickness due to particulate organic matter ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Absorption optical thickness"" means that part of the atmosphere optical thickness that is caused by the absorption of incident radiation. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere absorption optical thickness due to sea salt ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Absorption optical thickness"" means that part of the atmosphere optical thickness that is caused by the absorption of incident radiation. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere absorption optical thickness due to sulfate ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Absorption optical thickness"" means that part of the atmosphere optical thickness that is caused by the absorption of incident radiation. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere boundary layer thickness	"The atmosphere boundary layer thickness is the ""depth"" or ""height"" of the (atmosphere) planetary boundary layer."
atmosphere convective available potential energy	Convective(ly) available potential energy (often abbreviated CAPE) is a stability measure calculated by integrating the positive temperature difference between the surrounding atmosphere and a parcel of air lifted adiabatically from a given starting height to its equilibrium level. A coordinate variable of original_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel should be specified to indicate the starting height of the lifted parcel. CAPE exists under conditions of potential instability, and measures the potential energy per unit mass that would be released by the unstable parcel if it were able to convect upwards to equilibrium.
atmosphere convective available potential energy wrt surface	Convective(ly) available potential energy (often abbreviated CAPE) is a stability measure calculated by integrating the positive temperature difference between the surrounding atmosphere and a parcel of air lifted adiabatically from the surface to its equilibrium level. CAPE exists under conditions of potential instability, and measures the potential energy per unit mass that would be released by the unstable parcel if it were able to convect upwards to equilibrium.
atmosphere convective inhibition	"Convective inhibition is the amount of energy per unit mass required to overcome the negatively buoyant energy exerted by the environment on a parcel of air.  Convective inhibition is often abbreviated as ""CIN"" or ""CINH"".  It is calculated by integrating the negative temperature difference between the surrounding atmosphere and a parcel of air lifted adiabatically from a given starting height to its equilibrium level. A coordinate variable of original_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel should be specified to indicate the starting height of the lifted parcel."
atmosphere convective inhibition wrt surface	"Convective inhibition is the amount of energy per unit mass required to overcome the negatively buoyant energy exerted by the environment on a parcel of air.  Convective inhibition is often abbreviated as ""CIN"" or ""CINH"".  It is calculated by integrating the negative temperature difference between the surrounding atmosphere and a parcel of air lifted adiabatically from the surface to its equilibrium level."
atmosphere downdraft convective mass flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The atmosphere convective mass flux is the vertical transport of mass for a field of cumulus clouds or thermals, given by the product of air density and vertical velocity. For an area-average, cell_methods should specify whether the average is over all the area or the area of updrafts and/or downdrafts only.  ""Downdraft"" means that the flux is positive in the downward direction (negative upward)."
atmosphere dry energy content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Dry energy is the sum of dry static energy and kinetic energy. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
atmosphere dry static energy content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
atmosphere eastward stress due to gravity wave drag	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Atmosphere_Xward_stress is a stress which tends to accelerate the atmosphere in direction X."
atmosphere energy content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Atmosphere energy content"" has not yet been precisely defined! Please express your views on this quantity on the CF email list."
atmosphere enthalpy content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
atmosphere horizontal streamfunction	"""Horizontal"" indicates that the streamfunction applies to a horizontal velocity field on a particular vertical level."
atmosphere horizontal velocity potential	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Horizontal"" indicates that the velocity potential applies to a horizontal velocity field on a particular vertical level."
atmosphere hybrid height coordinate	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates.
atmosphere hybrid sigma pressure coordinate	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates.
atmosphere kinetic energy content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere level of free convection	The level of free convection is the altitude where the temperature of the environment decreases faster than the moist adiabatic lapse rate of a saturated air parcel at the same level.  It is calculated by lifting a parcel of air dry adiabatically to the LCL (lifted condensation level), then moist adiabatically until the parcel temperature is equal to the ambient temperature. A coordinate variable of original_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel should be specified to indicate the starting height of the lifted parcel.
atmosphere level of free convection wrt surface	The level of free convection is the altitude where the temperature of the environment decreases faster than the moist adiabatic lapse rate of a saturated air parcel at the same level.  It is calculated by lifting a parcel of air dry adiabatically from the surface to the LCL (lifting condensation level), then moist adiabatically until the parcel temperature is equal to the ambient temperature.
atmosphere lifting condensation level	The lifting condensation level is the height at which the relative humidity of an air parcel cooled by dry adiabatic lifting would reach 100%. A coordinate variable of original_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel should be specified to indicate the starting height of the lifted parcel.
atmosphere lifting condensation level wrt surface	The lifting condensation level is the height at which the relative humidity of an air parcel cooled by dry adiabatic lifting from the surface would reach 100%.
atmosphere ln pressure coordinate	"""ln_X"" means natural logarithm of X. X must be dimensionless. See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates."
atmosphere mass content of acetic acid	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid."
atmosphere mass content of aceto nitrile	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for aceto-nitrile is CH3CN. The IUPAC name for aceto-nitrile is ethanenitrile."
atmosphere mass content of alkanes	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons, i.e. they do not contain any chemical double bonds.  Alkanes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n+2); ""alkanes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkane species, e.g., methane and ethane."
atmosphere mass content of alkenes	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  Alkenes are unsaturated hydrocarbons as they contain chemical double bonds between adjacent carbon atoms.  Alkenes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n); ""alkenes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkene species, e.g., ethene and propene."
atmosphere mass content of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for alpha_hexachlorocyclohexane is C6H6Cl6."
atmosphere mass content of alpha pinene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for alpha_pinene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for alpha-pinene is (1S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene."
atmosphere mass content of ammonia	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3."
atmosphere mass content of ammonium dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The chemical formula for ammonium is NH4."
atmosphere mass content of anthropogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere mass content of aromatic compounds	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  Aromatic compounds in organic chemistry are compounds that contain at least one benzene ring of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double covalent bonds.  The simplest aromatic compound is benzene itself.  In standard names ""aromatic_compounds"" is the term used to describe the group of aromatic chemical species that  are represented within a given model.  The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.  Standard names exist for some individual aromatic species, e.g. benzene and xylene."
atmosphere mass content of atomic bromine	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical symbol for atomic bromine is Br."
atmosphere mass content of atomic chlorine	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical symbol for atomic chlorine is Cl."
atmosphere mass content of atomic nitrogen	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical symbol for atomic nitrogen is N."
atmosphere mass content of benzene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6.  Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
atmosphere mass content of beta pinene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for beta_pinene is C10H16.  The IUPAC name for beta-pinene is (1S,5S)-6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptane."
atmosphere mass content of biogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Biogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by natural processes. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere mass content of bromine chloride	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for bromine chloride is BrCl."
atmosphere mass content of bromine monoxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for bromine monoxide is BrO."
atmosphere mass content of bromine nitrate	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for bromine nitrate is BrONO2. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
atmosphere mass content of brox expressed as bromine	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""Brox""  describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic bromine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen bromide (HBr) and bromine nitrate (BrONO2). ""Brox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols.  Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_bromine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere mass content of butane	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere mass content of carbon dioxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO."
atmosphere mass content of carbon tetrachloride	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula of carbon tetrachloride is CCl4."
atmosphere mass content of cfc11	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane."
atmosphere mass content of cfc113	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula of CFC113 is CCl2FCClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC113 is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
atmosphere mass content of cfc113a	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula of CFC113a CCl3CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC113a is 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
atmosphere mass content of cfc114	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula of CFC114 is CClF2CClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC114 is 1,2-dichloro-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
atmosphere mass content of cfc115	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula of CFC115 is CClF2CF3. The IUPAC name for CFC115 is 1-chloro-1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoro-ethane."
atmosphere mass content of cfc12	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2.  The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane."
atmosphere mass content of chlorine dioxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for chlorine dioxide is OClO."
atmosphere mass content of chlorine monoxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for chlorine monoxide is ClO."
atmosphere mass content of chlorine nitrate	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for chlorine nitrate is ClONO2."
atmosphere mass content of cloud condensed water	"""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere mass content of cloud ice	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere mass content of cloud liquid water	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere mass content of clox expressed as chlorine	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""Clox"" describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic chlorine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine nitrate (ClONO2). ""Clox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols.   Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_chlorine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere mass content of convective cloud condensed water	"""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere mass content of convective cloud liquid water	"Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere mass content of dichlorine peroxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for dichlorine peroxide is Cl2O2."
atmosphere mass content of dimethyl sulfide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S.  Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referred to as DMS."
atmosphere mass content of dinitrogen pentoxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for dinitrogen pentoxide is N2O5."
atmosphere mass content of dust dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
atmosphere mass content of ethane	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere mass content of ethanol	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for ethanol is C2H5OH."
atmosphere mass content of ethene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere mass content of ethyne	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H.  Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene."
atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal."
atmosphere mass content of formic acid	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid."
atmosphere mass content of gaseous divalent mercury	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule."
atmosphere mass content of gaseous elemental mercury	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical symbol for mercury is Hg."
atmosphere mass content of halon1202	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for halon1202 is CBr2F2. The IUPAC name for halon1202 is dibromo-difluoro-methane."
atmosphere mass content of halon1211	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for halon1211 is CBrClF2. The IUPAC name for halon1211 is bromo-chloro-difluoro-methane."
atmosphere mass content of halon1301	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for halon1301 is CBrF3. The IUPAC name for halon1301 is bromo-trifluoro-methane."
atmosphere mass content of halon2402	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for halo2402 is C2Br2F4. The IUPAC name for halon2402 is 1,2-dibromo-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
atmosphere mass content of hcc140a	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for hcc140a is CH3CCl3. The IUPAC name for hcc140a is 1,1,1-trichloro-ethane."
atmosphere mass content of hcfc141b	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for HCFC141b is CH3CCl2F. The IUPAC name for HCFC141b is 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane."
atmosphere mass content of hcfc142b	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for HCFC142b is CH3CClF2. The IUPAC name for HCFC142b is 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane."
atmosphere mass content of hcfc22	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC22 is chloro-difluoro-methane."
atmosphere mass content of hexachlorobiphenyl	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for hexachlorobiphenyl is C12H4Cl6.  This structure of this species consists of two linked benzene rings, each of which is additionally bonded to three chlorine atoms."
atmosphere mass content of hox expressed as hydrogen	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""HOx"" means a combination of two radical species containing hydrogen and oxygen: OH and HO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere mass content of hydrogen bromide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for hydrogen bromide is HBr."
atmosphere mass content of hydrogen chloride	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for hydrogen chloride is HCl."
atmosphere mass content of hydrogen cyanide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for hydrogen cyanide is HCN."
atmosphere mass content of hydrogen peroxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide is H2O2."
atmosphere mass content of hydroperoxyl radical	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for the hydroperoxyl radical is HO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere mass content of hydroxyl radical	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for the hydroxyl radical is OH. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere mass content of hypobromous acid	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for hypobromous acid is HOBr."
atmosphere mass content of hypochlorous acid	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for hypochlorous acid is HOCl."
atmosphere mass content of inorganic bromine	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic bromine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""brox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species except HBr and BrONO2."
atmosphere mass content of inorganic chlorine	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic chlorine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""clox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species except HCl and ClONO2."
atmosphere mass content of isoprene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere mass content of limonene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for limonene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for limonene is 1-methyl-4-prop-1-en-2-yl-cyclohexene. Limonene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere mass content of mercury dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
atmosphere mass content of methane	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere mass content of methanol	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for methanol is CH3OH."
atmosphere mass content of methyl bromide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for methyl bromide is CH3Br. The IUPAC name for methyl bromide is bromomethane."
atmosphere mass content of methyl chloride	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for methyl chloride is CH3Cl. The IUPAC name for methyl chloride is chloromethane."
atmosphere mass content of methyl hydroperoxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for methyl hydroperoxide is CH3OOH."
atmosphere mass content of methyl peroxy radical	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for methyl_peroxy_radical is CH3O2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere mass content of molecular hydrogen	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2."
atmosphere mass content of nitrate dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
atmosphere mass content of nitrate radical	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for nitrate is NO3. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere mass content of nitric acid	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3."
atmosphere mass content of nitric acid trihydrate ambient aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". Nitric acid trihydrate, sometimes referred to as NAT, is a stable crystalline substance consisting of three molecules of water to one molecule of nitric acid. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3."
atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO."
atmosphere mass content of nitrous acid	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2."
atmosphere mass content of nitrous oxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for nitrous oxide is N2O."
atmosphere mass content of nmvoc expressed as carbon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere mass content of noy expressed as nitrogen	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2) , chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere mass content of oxygenated hydrocarbons	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.   ""Oxygenated"" means containing oxygen. ""Hydrocarbon"" means a compound containing hydrogen and carbon."
atmosphere mass content of ozone	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for ozone is O3."
atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
atmosphere mass content of peroxy radicals	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The term ""peroxy_radicals"" means all organic and inorganic peroxy radicals. This includes HO2 and all organic peroxy radicals, sometimes referred to as RO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere mass content of peroxyacetyl nitrate	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, is CH3COO2NO2.  The IUPAC name for peroxyacetyl_nitrate is nitroethaneperoxoate."
atmosphere mass content of peroxynitric acid	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for peroxynitric acid, sometimes referred to as PNA, is HO2NO2."
atmosphere mass content of primary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Primary particulate organic matter "" means all organic matter emitted directly to the atmosphere as particles except elemental carbon. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
atmosphere mass content of propane	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere mass content of propene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere mass content of radon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical symbol for radon is Rn."
atmosphere mass content of sea salt dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
atmosphere mass content of sea salt dry aerosol particles expressed as cations	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The phrase ""sea_salt_cation"" is the term used in standard names to describe collectively the group of cationic species that occur in sea salt. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Sea salt cations are mainly sodium (Na+), but also include potassium (K+), magnesium (Mg2+), calcium (Ca2+) and rarer cations. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the ions represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
atmosphere mass content of secondary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Secondary particulate organic matter "" means particulate organic matter formed within the atmosphere from gaseous precursors. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
atmosphere mass content of sulfate	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere mass content of sulfate ambient aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles expressed as sulfur	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2."
atmosphere mass content of terpenes	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  Terpenes are hydrocarbons, that is, they contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions (C5H8)n where n is an integer greater than on equal to one. The term ""terpenes"" is used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.  Standard names exist for some individual terpene species, e.g., isoprene and limonene."
atmosphere mass content of toluene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3.  Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group.  The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene."
atmosphere mass content of volcanic ash	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Volcanic_ash"" means the fine-grained products of explosive volcanic eruptions, such as minerals or crystals, older fragmented rock (e.g. andesite), and glass. Particles within a volcanic ash cloud have diameters less than 2 mm. ""Volcanic_ash"" does not include non-volcanic dust."
atmosphere mass content of water	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Water"" means water in all phases."
atmosphere mass content of water in ambient aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Water"" means water in all phases. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
atmosphere mass content of water vapor	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Atmosphere water vapor content is sometimes referred to as ""precipitable water"", although this term does not imply the water could all be precipitated."
atmosphere mass content of xylene	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
atmosphere mass of air per unit area	"""Mass_of_air"" means the mass due solely to the gaseous constituents of the atmosphere.  The standard name for the mass including precipitation and aerosol particles is atmosphere_mass_per_unit_area."
atmosphere mass of carbon dioxide	The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2.
atmosphere mass per unit area	"""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell."
atmosphere mole content of ozone	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The construction ""atmosphere_mole_content_of_X"" means the vertically integrated number of moles of X above a unit area. The chemical formula for ozone is O3. atmosphere_mole_content_of_ozone is usually measured in Dobson Units which are equivalent to 446.2 micromoles m-2. N.B. Data variables containing column content of ozone can be given the standard name of either equivalent_thickness_at_stp_of_atmosphere_ozone_content or atmosphere_mole_content_of_ozone.The latter name is recommended for consistency with mole content names for chemical species other than ozone."
atmosphere moles of acetic acid	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid."
atmosphere moles of aceto nitrile	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for aceto-nitrile is CH3CN. The IUPAC name for aceto-nitrile is ethanenitrile."
atmosphere moles of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for alpha_hexachlorocyclohexane is C6H6Cl6."
atmosphere moles of alpha pinene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for alpha_pinene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for alpha-pinene is (1S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene."
atmosphere moles of ammonia	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3."
atmosphere moles of anthropogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity.  The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere moles of atomic bromine	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for atomic bromine is Br."
atmosphere moles of atomic chlorine	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for atomic chlorine is Cl."
atmosphere moles of atomic nitrogen	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for atomic nitrogen is N."
atmosphere moles of benzene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6.  Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
atmosphere moles of beta pinene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for beta_pinene is C10H16.  The IUPAC name for beta-pinene is (1S,5S)-6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptane."
atmosphere moles of biogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Biogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by natural processes. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere moles of bromine chloride	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for bromine chloride is BrCl."
atmosphere moles of bromine monoxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for bromine monoxide is BrO."
atmosphere moles of bromine nitrate	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for bromine nitrate is BrONO2."
atmosphere moles of brox expressed as bromine	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Brox""  describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic bromine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen bromide (HBr) and bromine nitrate (BrONO2). ""Brox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols.  Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_bromine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere moles of butane	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere moles of carbon dioxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
atmosphere moles of carbon monoxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for carbon monoxide is CO."
atmosphere moles of carbon tetrachloride	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for carbon tetrachloride is CCl4."
atmosphere moles of cfc11	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane."
atmosphere moles of cfc113	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula of CFC113 is CCl2FCClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC113 is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
atmosphere moles of cfc113a	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula of CFC113a CCl3CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC113a is 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
atmosphere moles of cfc114	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula of CFC114 is CClF2CClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC114 is 1,2-dichloro-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
atmosphere moles of cfc115	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula of CFC115 is CClF2CF3. The IUPAC name for CFC115 is 1-chloro-1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoro-ethane."
atmosphere moles of cfc12	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2.  The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane."
atmosphere moles of chlorine dioxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for chlorine dioxide is OClO."
atmosphere moles of chlorine monoxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for chlorine monoxide is ClO."
atmosphere moles of chlorine nitrate	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for chlorine nitrate is ClONO2."
atmosphere moles of clox expressed as chlorine	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Clox"" describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic chlorine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine nitrate (ClONO2). ""Clox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols.   Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_chlorine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere moles of dichlorine peroxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for dichlorine peroxide is Cl2O2."
atmosphere moles of dimethyl sulfide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S.  Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referred to as DMS."
atmosphere moles of dinitrogen pentoxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for dinitrogen pentoxide is N2O5."
atmosphere moles of ethane	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere moles of ethanol	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ethanol is C2H5OH."
atmosphere moles of ethene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere moles of ethyne	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H.  Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene."
atmosphere moles of formaldehyde	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal."
atmosphere moles of formic acid	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid."
atmosphere moles of gaseous divalent mercury	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule."
atmosphere moles of gaseous elemental mercury	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for mercury is Hg."
atmosphere moles of halon1202	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for halon1202 is CBr2F2. The IUPAC name for halon1202 is dibromo-difluoro-methane."
atmosphere moles of halon1211	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for halon1211 is CBrClF2. The IUPAC name for halon1211 is bromo-chloro-difluoro-methane."
atmosphere moles of halon1301	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for halon1301 is CBrF3. The IUPAC name for halon1301 is bromo-trifluoro-methane."
atmosphere moles of halon2402	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for halo2402 is C2Br2F4. The IUPAC name for halon2402 is 1,2-dibromo-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
atmosphere moles of hcc140a	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hcc140a is CH3CCl3. The IUPAC name for hcc140a is 1,1,1-trichloro-ethane."
atmosphere moles of hcfc141b	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for HCFC141b is CH3CCl2F. The IUPAC name for HCFC141b is 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane."
atmosphere moles of hcfc142b	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for HCFC142b is CH3CClF2. The IUPAC name for HCFC142b is 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane."
atmosphere moles of hcfc22	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC22 is chloro-difluoro-methane."
atmosphere moles of hexachlorobiphenyl	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hexachlorobiphenyl is C12H4Cl6.  This structure of this species consists of two linked benzene rings, each of which is additionally bonded to three chlorine atoms."
atmosphere moles of hox expressed as hydrogen	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""HOx"" means a combination of two radical species containing hydrogen and oxygen: OH and HO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere moles of hydrogen bromide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hydrogen bromide is HBr."
atmosphere moles of hydrogen chloride	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hydrogen chloride is HCl."
atmosphere moles of hydrogen cyanide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hydrogen cyanide is HCN."
atmosphere moles of hydrogen peroxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide is H2O2."
atmosphere moles of hydroperoxyl radical	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for the hydroperoxyl radical is HO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere moles of hydroxyl radical	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for the hydroxyl radical is OH. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere moles of hypobromous acid	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hypobromous acid is HOBr."
atmosphere moles of hypochlorous acid	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hypochlorous acid is HOCl."
atmosphere moles of inorganic bromine	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic bromine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""brox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species except HBr and BrONO2."
atmosphere moles of inorganic chlorine	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic chlorine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""clox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species except HCl and ClONO2."
atmosphere moles of isoprene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere moles of limonene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for limonene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for limonene is 1-methyl-4-prop-1-en-2-yl-cyclohexene. Limonene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere moles of methane	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere moles of methanol	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methanol is CH3OH."
atmosphere moles of methyl bromide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methyl bromide is CH3Br. The IUPAC name for methyl bromide is bromomethane."
atmosphere moles of methyl chloride	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methyl chloride is CH3Cl. The IUPAC name for methyl chloride is chloromethane."
atmosphere moles of methyl hydroperoxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methyl hydroperoxide is CH3OOH."
atmosphere moles of methyl peroxy radical	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methyl_peroxy_radical is CH3O2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere moles of molecular hydrogen	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2."
atmosphere moles of nitrate radical	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
atmosphere moles of nitric acid	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3."
atmosphere moles of nitric acid trihydrate ambient aerosol particles	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3. Nitric acid trihydrate, sometimes referred to as NAT, is a stable crystalline substance consisting of three molecules of water to one molecule of nitric acid."
atmosphere moles of nitrogen dioxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2."
atmosphere moles of nitrogen monoxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO."
atmosphere moles of nitrous acid	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2."
atmosphere moles of nitrous oxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitrous oxide is N2O."
atmosphere moles of nmvoc expressed as carbon	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere moles of nox expressed as nitrogen	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere moles of noy expressed as nitrogen	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2) , chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
atmosphere moles of ozone	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ozone is O3."
atmosphere moles of peroxyacetyl nitrate	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, is CH3COO2NO2.  The IUPAC name for peroxyacetyl_nitrate is nitroethaneperoxoate."
atmosphere moles of peroxynitric acid	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for peroxynitric acid, sometimes referred to as PNA, is HO2NO2."
atmosphere moles of propane	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere moles of propene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
atmosphere moles of radon	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for radon is Rn."
atmosphere moles of sulfur dioxide	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2."
atmosphere moles of toluene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3.  Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group.  The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene."
atmosphere moles of water vapor	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe."
atmosphere moles of xylene	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
atmosphere net rate of absorption of longwave energy	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Net absorbed radiation is the difference between absorbed and emitted radiation."
atmosphere net rate of absorption of shortwave energy	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Net absorbed radiation is the difference between absorbed and emitted radiation."
atmosphere net upward convective mass flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The atmosphere convective mass flux is the vertical transport of mass for a field of cumulus clouds or thermals, given by the product of air density and vertical velocity. Net upward convective mass flux is the difference between the updraft mass flux and the downdraft mass flux. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). For an area-average, cell_methods should specify whether the average is over all the area or the area of updrafts and/or downdrafts only."
atmosphere net upward deep convective mass flux	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The atmosphere convective mass flux is the vertical transport of mass for a field of cumulus clouds or thermals, given by the product of air density and vertical velocity. For an area-average, cell_methods should specify whether the average is over all the area or the area of updrafts and/or downdrafts only.  Net upward convective mass flux is the difference between the updraft mass flux and the downdraft mass flux."
atmosphere net upward shallow convective mass flux	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The atmosphere convective mass flux is the vertical transport of mass for a field of cumulus clouds or thermals, given by the product of air density and vertical velocity. For an area-average, cell_methods should specify whether the average is over all the area or the area of updrafts and/or downdrafts only.  Net upward convective mass flux is the difference between the updraft mass flux and the downdraft mass flux."
atmosphere northward stress due to gravity wave drag	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Atmosphere_Xward_stress is a stress which tends to accelerate the atmosphere in direction X."
atmosphere number content of aerosol particles	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself."
atmosphere number content of cloud droplets	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere number content of ice crystals	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
atmosphere optical thickness due to ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to ammonium ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-""optical_thickness"") on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to black carbon ambient aerosol	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. ""Aerosol"" means the suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets).  ""Ambient aerosol"" is aerosol that has taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth.  The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol.  Black carbon aerosol is composed of elemental carbon.  It is strongly light absorbing."
atmosphere optical thickness due to cloud	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. ""Cloud"" means the component of extinction owing to the presence of liquid or ice water particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to convective cloud	The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path.  A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere.  Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.
atmosphere optical thickness due to dust ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to dust dry aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-""optical_thickness"") on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to nitrate ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-""optical_thickness"") on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
atmosphere optical thickness due to particulate organic matter ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to pm10 ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to pm1 ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm1 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 1 micrometer. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to pm2p5 ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to sea salt ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to stratiform cloud	The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path.  A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere.  In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.
atmosphere optical thickness due to sulfate ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-""optical_thickness"") on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere optical thickness due to water in ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. The atmosphere optical thickness applies to radiation passing through the entire atmosphere. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""atmosphere_optical_thickness_due_to_water_in_ambient_aerosol"" refers to the optical thickness due to the water that is associated with aerosol particles due to hygroscopic growth in ambient air, affecting the radius and refractive index of the particle. It corresponds to the difference between the total dry aerosol optical thickness and the total ambient aerosol optical thickness. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
atmosphere potential energy content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)"
atmosphere relative vorticity	Relative vorticity is the upward component of the vorticity vector i.e. the component which arises from horizontal velocity.
atmosphere sigma coordinate	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates.
atmosphere sleve coordinate	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates.
atmosphere stability k index	"The atmosphere_stability_k_index is an index that indicates the potential of severe convection and is often referred to a simply the k index. The index is derived from the difference in air temperature between 850 and 500 hPa, the dew point temperature at 850 hPa, and the difference between the air temperature and the dew point temperature at 
700 hPa."
atmosphere stability showalter index	The atmosphere_stability_showalter_index is an index used to determine convective and thunderstorm potential and is often referred to as simply the showalter index. The index is defined as the temperature difference between a parcel of air lifted from 850 to 500 hPa (wet adiabatically) and the ambient air temperature at 500 hPa.
atmosphere stability total totals index	"The atmosphere_stability_total_totals_index indicates the
likelihood of severe convection and is often referred to as simply the
total totals index. The index is derived from the difference in air
temperature between 850 and 500 hPa (the vertical totals) and the
difference between the dew point temperature at 850 hPa and the air
temperature at 500 hPa (the cross totals). The vertical totals and cross
totals are summed to obtain the index."
atmosphere updraft convective mass flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The atmosphere convective mass flux is the vertical transport of mass for a field of cumulus clouds or thermals, given by the product of air density and vertical velocity. For an area-average, cell_methods should specify whether the average is over all the area or the area of updrafts and/or downdrafts only.  ""Updraft"" means that the flux is  positive in the updward direction (negative downward)."
automated tropical cyclone forecasting system storm identifier	The Automated Tropical Cyclone Forecasting System (ATCF) storm identifier is an 8 character string which identifies a tropical cyclone. The storm identifier has the form BBCCYYYY, where BB is the ocean basin, specifically: AL - North Atlantic basin, north of the Equator; SL - South Atlantic basin, south of the Equator; EP - North East Pacific basin, eastward of 140 degrees west longitude; CP - North Central Pacific basin, between the dateline and 140 degrees west longitude; WP - North West Pacific basin, westward of the dateline; IO - North Indian Ocean basin, north of the Equator between 40 and 100 degrees east longitude; SH - South Pacific Ocean basin and South Indian Ocean basin. CC is the cyclone number. Numbers 01 through 49 are reserved for tropical and subtropical cyclones. A cyclone number is assigned to each tropical or subtropical cyclone in each basin as it develops. Numbers are assigned in chronological order. Numbers 50 through 79 are reserved for internal use by operational forecast centers. Numbers 80 through 89 are reserved for training, exercises and testing. Numbers 90 through 99 are reserved for tropical disturbances having the potential to become tropical or subtropical cyclones. The 90's are assigned sequentially and reused throughout the calendar year. YYYY is the four-digit year. This is calendar year for the northern hemisphere. For the southern hemisphere, the year begins July 1, with calendar year plus one. Reference: Miller, R.J., Schrader, A.J., Sampson, C.R., & Tsui, T.L. (1990), The Automated Tropical Cyclone Forecasting System (ATCF), American Meteorological Society Computer Techniques, 5, 653 - 660.
backscattering ratio	"Scattering of radiation is its deflection from its incident path without loss of energy.  Backwards scattering refers to the sum of scattering into all backward angles i.e. scattering_angle exceeding pi/2 radians. A scattering_angle should not be specified with this quantity.  ""Backscattering ratio"" is the ratio of the  quantity with standard name volume_attenuated_backwards_scattering_function_in_air to the quantity with standard name volume_attenuated_backwards_scattering_function_in_air_assuming_no_aerosol_or_cloud."
baroclinic eastward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward)."
baroclinic northward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward)."
barometric altitude	Barometric altitude is the altitude determined by a pressure measurement which is converted to altitude through interpolation of the International Standard Atmosphere (ICAO, 1976).  A mean sea level pressure of 1013.25 hPa is used for the surface pressure.
barotropic eastward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward)."
barotropic northward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward)."
barotropic sea water x velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity.  ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x."
barotropic sea water y velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity.  ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y."
baseflow amount	"""Baseflow"" is subsurface runoff which takes place below the level of the water table. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
beaufort wind force	"""Beaufort wind force"" is an index assigned on the Beaufort wind force scale and relates a qualitative description of the degree of disturbance or destruction caused by wind to the speed of the wind.  The Beaufort wind scale varies between 0 (qualitatively described as calm, smoke rises vertically, sea appears glassy) (wind speeds in the range 0 - 0.2 m s-1) and 12 (hurricane, wave heights in excess of 14 m) (wind speeds in excess of 32.7 m s-1)."
bedrock altitude	"Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level. ""Bedrock"" is the solid Earth surface beneath land ice or ocean water."
bedrock altitude change due to isostatic adjustment	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level. ""Bedrock"" is the solid Earth surface beneath land ice or ocean water. The zero of bedrock altitude change is arbitrary. Isostatic adjustment is the vertical movement of the lithosphere due to changing surface ice and water loads."
biomass burning carbon flux	"""Biomass burning carbon"" refers to the rate at which biomass is burned by forest fires etc., expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
brightness temperature	The brightness temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area.
brightness temperature anomaly	"The brightness temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area. ""anomaly"" means difference from climatology."
brightness temperature at cloud top	cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud. brightness_temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength, sensor_band_central_radiation_wavelength, or radiation_frequency may be specified to indicate that the brightness temperature applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies.
brunt vaisala frequency in air	"Frequency is the number of oscillations of a wave per unit time. Brunt-Vaisala frequency is also sometimes called ""buoyancy frequency"" and is a measure of the vertical stratification of the medium."
burned area	"""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. The extent of an individual grid cell is defined by the horizontal coordinates and any associated coordinate bounds or by a string valued auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of ""region"". ""Burned area"" means the area of burned vegetation."
burned area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. ""Burned area"" means the area of burned vegetation."
canopy and surface water amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. ""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy. ""Canopy and surface water"" means the sum of water on the ground and on the canopy."
canopy height	"Height is the vertical distance above the surface. ""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy."
canopy resistance to ozone dry deposition	"""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy. The ""canopy_resistance"" is the resistance of a compound to uptake by the vegetation canopy. It varies both with the surface and the chemical species or physical state (gas or particle). Canopy resistance is a function of the canopy stomatal resistance (Rstom), the canopy cuticle resistance (Rcuticle), and the soil resistance (Rsoil). In the case of ozone the uptake by the cuticle is small compared to the uptake through the stomata, reference: Kerstiens and Lendzian, 1989. This means that the cuticle transfer pathway can be neglected in model parameterizations, reference: Ganzeveld and Jos Lelieveld , 1995, doi/10.1029/95JD02266/pdf. The chemical formula for ozone is O3. The IUPAC name for ozone is trioxygen."
canopy temperature	"""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy.  ""Canopy_temperature"" is the bulk temperature of the canopy, not the surface (skin) temperature."
canopy throughfall flux	"""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy.  ""Throughfall"" is the part of the precipitation flux that reaches the ground directly through the vegetative canopy, through intershrub spaces in the canopy, and as drip from the leaves, twigs, and stems (but not including snowmelt).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
canopy water amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. ""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy. The canopy water is the water on the canopy."
carbon content of forestry and agricultural products	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. Examples of ""forestry and agricultural products"" are paper, cardboard, furniture, timber for construction, biofuels and food for both humans and livestock. Models that simulate land use changes have one or more pools of carbon that represent these products in order to conserve carbon and allow its eventual release into the atmosphere, for example, when the products decompose in landfill sites."
carbon mass flux into forestry and agricultural products due to anthropogenic land use or land cover change	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity. Examples of ""forestry and agricultural products"" are paper, cardboard, furniture, timber for construction, biofuels and food for both humans and livestock. Models that simulate land use changes have one or more pools of carbon that represent these products in order to conserve carbon and allow its eventual release into the atmosphere, for example, when the products decompose in landfill sites. ""Anthropogenic land use change"" means human changes to land, excluding forest regrowth. It includes fires ignited by humans for the purpose of land use change and the processes of eventual disposal and decomposition of wood products such as paper, cardboard, furniture and timber for construction."
carbon mass flux into soil and litter due to anthropogenic land use or land cover change	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. ""Litter"" is dead plant material in or above the soil. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity. ""Anthropogenic land use change"" means human changes to land, excluding forest regrowth. It includes fires ignited by humans for the purpose of land use change and the processes of eventual disposal and decomposition of wood products such as paper, cardboard, furniture and timber for construction."
carbon mass flux into soil from litter	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. ""Litter"" is dead plant material in or above the soil."
carbon mass flux into soil from vegetation excluding litter	"""Vegetation"" means any plants e.g. trees, shrubs, grass.  ""Litter"" is dead plant material in or above the soil. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
cell area	"""Cell_area"" is the horizontal area of a gridcell."
cell thickness	"""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer. ""Cell"" refers to a model grid-cell."
change in atmosphere energy content due to change in sigma coordinate wrt surface pressure	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""wrt"" means with respect to. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Atmosphere energy content"" has not yet been precisely defined! Please express your views on this quantity on the CF email list. See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates."
change in energy content of atmosphere layer due to change in sigma coordinate wrt surface pressure	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""wrt"" means with respect to. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates."
change in land ice amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Zero change in land ice amount is an arbitrary level. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
change over time in atmosphere mass content of water due to advection	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  ""Water"" means water in all phases.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
change over time in sea water absolute salinity	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate. Absolute Salinity, S_A, is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). It is the mass fraction of dissolved material in sea water. Absolute Salinity incorporates the spatial variations in the composition of sea water. This type of Absolute Salinity is also called ""Density Salinity"". TEOS-10 estimates Absolute Salinity as the salinity variable that, when used with the TEOS-10 expression for density, yields the correct density of a sea water sample even when the sample is not of Reference Composition. In practice, Absolute Salinity is often calculated from Practical Salinity using a spatial lookup table of pre-defined values of the Absolute Salinity Anomaly. It is recommended that the version of (TEOS-10) software and the associated Absolute Salinity Anomaly climatology be specified within metadata by attaching a comment attribute to the data variable. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Millero et al., 2008 doi: 10.1016/j.dsr.2007.10.001. There are also standard names for the precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 onwards), sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions should be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity."
change over time in sea water conservative temperature	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2. "
change over time in sea water density	"Sea water density is the in-situ density (not the potential density). If 1000 kg m-3 is subtracted, the standard name ""sea_water_sigma_t"" should be chosen instead. ""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate."
change over time in sea water neutral density	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate. ""Neutral density"" is a variable designed so that a surface of constant neutral density everywhere has a local slope that is close to the local slope of the neutral tangent plane. At the sea surface in the equatorial Pacific neutral density is very close to the potential density anomaly. At other locations, this is not the case. For example, along a neutral density surface there is a difference of up to 0.14 kg/m^3 in the potential density anomaly at the outcrops in the Southern and Northern hemispheres. Refer to Jackett & McDougall (1997; Journal of Physical Oceanography, Vol 27, doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(1997)027<0237:ANDVFT>2.0.CO;2) for more information."
change over time in sea water potential density	"Potential density is the density a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to a reference pressure, by default assumed to be sea level pressure.  For sea water potential density, if 1000 kg m-3 is subtracted, the standard name ""sea_water_sigma_theta"" should be chosen instead. ""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate."
change over time in sea water potential temperature	"Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure. ""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate."
change over time in sea water practical salinity	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate. Practical Salinity, S_P, is a determination of the salinity of sea water, based on its electrical conductance. The measured conductance, corrected for temperature and pressure, is compared to the conductance of a standard potassium chloride solution, producing a value on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78). This name should not be used to describe salinity observations made before 1978, or ones not based on conductance measurements. Conversion of Practical Salinity to other precisely defined salinity measures should use the appropriate formulas specified by TEOS-10. Other standard names for precisely defined salinity quantities are sea_water_absolute_salinity (S_A); sea_water_preformed_salinity (S_*), sea_water_reference_salinity (S_R); sea_water_cox_salinity (S_C), used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977; and sea_water_knudsen_salinity (S_K), used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions shoul d be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Lewis, 1980 doi:10.1109/JOE.1980.1145448."
change over time in sea water preformed salinity	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate. Preformed Salinity, S*, is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Preformed Salinity is a salinity variable that is designed to be as conservative as possible, by removing the estimated biogeochemical influences on the sea water composition. Preformed Salinity is Absolute Salinity, S_A (which has the standard name sea_water_absolute_salinity), minus all contributions to sea water composition from biogeochemical processes. Preformed Salinity is the mass fraction of dissolved material in sea water. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Pawlowicz et al., 2011 doi: 10.5194/os-7-363-2011; Wright et al., 2011 doi: 10.5194/os-7-1-2011. There are also standard names for the precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 onwards), and sea_water_reference_salinity. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions should be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity."
change over time in sea water salinity	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate. Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and the units attribute should normally be given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
change over time in sea water specific potential enthalpy	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate. The potential enthalpy of a sea water parcel is the specific enthalpy after an adiabatic and isohaline change in pressure from its in situ pressure to the sea pressure p = 0 dbar. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2."
change over time in sea water temperature	"""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate.Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. To specify the depth at which the temperature applies use a vertical coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable. There are standard names for sea_surface_temperature, sea_surface_skin_temperature, sea_surface_subskin_temperature and sea_surface_foundation_temperature which can be used to describe data located at the specified surfaces. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
change over time in surface snow amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""change_over_time_in_X"" means change in a quantity X over a time-interval, which should be defined by the bounds of the time coordinate. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Surface amount refers to the amount on the ground, excluding that on the plant or vegetation canopy."
clear sky area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. The clear_sky area fraction is for the whole atmosphere column, as seen from the surface or the top of the atmosphere."
cloud albedo	The albedo of cloud.
cloud area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". The cloud area fraction is for the whole atmosphere column, as seen from the surface or the top of the atmosphere. The cloud area fraction in a layer of the atmosphere has the standard name cloud_area_fraction_in_atmosphere_layer."
cloud area fraction in atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover""."
cloud base altitude	cloud_base refers to the base of the lowest cloud. Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level.
cloud binary mask	X_binary_mask has 1 where condition X is met, 0 elsewhere. 1 = cloud present, 0 = cloud absent (clear). If no threshold is supplied, the binary mask is 1 if there is any non-zero amount of cloud. if a threshold is supplied, it should be specified by associating a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the data variable and giving the coordinate variable a standard name of cloud_area_fraction. The values of the coordinate variable are the threshold values for the corresponding subarrays of the data variable.
cloud ice mixing ratio	Cloud ice mixing ratio of a parcel of air is the ratio of the mass of ice to the mass of dry air.
cloud liquid water mixing ratio	Cloud liquid water mixing ratio of a parcel of air is the ratio of the mass of liquid water to the mass of dry air.
cloud top altitude	cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud. Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level.
compressive strength of sea ice	"""Compressive strength"" is a measure of the capacity of a material to withstand compressive forces.  If compressive forces are exerted on a material in excess of its compressive strength, fracturing will occur."
concentration of colored dissolved organic matter in sea water expressed as equivalent mass fraction of quinine sulfate dihydrate	"The quantity with standard name concentration_of_colored_dissolved_organic_matter_in_sea_water_expressed_as_equivalent_mass_fraction_of_quinine_sulfate_dihydrate is also commonly known as Chromophoric Dissolved Organic Matter (CDOM). CDOM plays an important role in the carbon cycling and biogeochemistry of coastal waters. It occurs naturally in aquatic environments primarily as a result of tannins released from decaying plant and animal matter, which can enter coastal areas in river run-off containing organic materials leached from soils. When present in high concentrations, it imparts a brown or yellowish color to water. Its presence can negatively impact fish populations by reducing dissolved oxygen concentrations to harmful levels and by releasing nutrients and metals that contaminate the water. Increased understanding of the role of CDOM will further our ability to manage and protect coastal ecosystems. Sensors are commonly calibrated against a 100 parts per billion (ppb) quinine sulfate dihydrate solution, a fluorescent reference standard commonly used with CDOM sensors. CDOM sensors therefore report in ""QSDE"" (quinine sulfate dihydrate equivalents). It is important to note, however, that CDOM concentrations in QSDE are not necessarily equivalent to the in situ CDOM concentrations in ppb."
convection time fraction	"""Time fraction"" means a fraction of a time interval. The interval in question must be specified by the values or bounds of the time coordinate variable associated with the data. ""X_time_fraction"" means the fraction of the time interval during which X occurs."
convective cloud area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". The cloud area fraction is for the whole atmosphere column, as seen from the surface or the top of the atmosphere. The cloud area fraction in a layer of the atmosphere has the standard name cloud_area_fraction_in_atmosphere_layer. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model."
convective cloud area fraction in atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model."
convective cloud base altitude	cloud_base refers to the base of the lowest cloud. Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
convective cloud base height	cloud_base refers to the base of the lowest cloud. Height is the vertical distance above the surface. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
convective cloud longwave emissivity	"Emissivity is the ratio of the power emitted by an object to the power that would be emitted by a perfect black body having the same temperature as the object. The emissivity is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency is included to specify either the wavelength or frequency. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.  ""longwave"" means longwave radiation."
convective cloud top altitude	cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud. Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
convective cloud top height	cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud. Height is the vertical distance above the surface. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
convective precipitation amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
convective precipitation flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
convective precipitation rate	"""Precipitation rate"" means the depth or thickness of the layer formed by precipitation per unit time."
convective rainfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
convective rainfall flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
convective snowfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
convective snowfall flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
coriolis parameter	The Coriolis parameter is twice the component of the earth's angular velocity about the local vertical i.e. 2 W sin L, where L is latitude and W the angular speed of the earth.
correction for model negative specific humidity	A numerical correction which is added to modelled negative specific humidities in order to obtain a value of zero.
depth	Depth is the vertical distance below the surface.
depth at maximum upward derivative of sea water potential temperature	"This quantity, often used to indicate the ""thermocline depth"", is the depth of the maximum vertical gradient of sea water potential temperature.  Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure."
depth at shallowest local minimum in vertical profile of mole concentration of dissolved molecular oxygen in sea water	"Depth is the vertical distance below the surface.   'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The concentration of any chemical species, whether particulate or dissolved, may vary with depth in the ocean.  A depth profile may go through one or more local minima in concentration. The  depth_at_shallowest_local_minimum_in_vertical_profile_of_mole_concentration_of_dissolved_molecular_oxygen_in_sea_water is the depth of the local minimum in the oxygen concentration that occurs closest to the sea surface."
depth below geoid	"The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean). In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention. ""Depth_below_X"" means the vertical distance below the named surface X."
depth below sea floor	"""Depth_below_X"" means the vertical distance below the named surface X."
depth of isosurface of sea water potential temperature	"This quantity, sometimes called the ""isotherm depth"", is the depth (if it exists) at which the sea water potential temperature equals some specified value. This value should be specified in a scalar coordinate variable. Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure."
dew point depression	Dew point depression is also called dew point deficit. It is the amount by which the air temperature exceeds its dew point temperature. Dew point temperature is the temperature at which a parcel of air reaches saturation upon being cooled at constant pressure and specific humidity.
dew point temperature	Dew point temperature is the temperature at which a parcel of air reaches saturation upon being cooled at constant pressure and specific humidity.
difference of air pressure from model reference	In some atmosphere models, the difference of air pressure from model reference is a prognostic variable, instead of the air pressure itself. The model reference air pressure is a model-dependent constant. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation.
diffuse downwelling shortwave flux in air	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"".  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"".  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Diffuse"" radiation is radiation that has been scattered by particles in the atmosphere such as cloud droplets and aerosols."
diffuse downwelling shortwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"".  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"".  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  A phrase assuming_condition  indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all  aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition.  ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Diffuse"" radiation is radiation that has been scattered by particles in the atmosphere such as cloud droplets and aerosols."
dimensionless exner function	"The term ""Exner function"" is applied to various quantities in the literature. ""Dimensionless Exner function"" is the standard name of (p/p0)^(R/Cp), where p is pressure, p0 a reference pressure, R the gas constant and Cp the specific heat at constant pressure. This quantity is also the ratio of in-situ to potential temperature. Standard names for other variants can be defined on request."
direct downwelling shortwave flux in air	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Direct"" (also known as ""beam"") radiation is radiation that has followed a direct path from the sun and is alternatively known as ""direct insolation"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
direction of radial vector away from instrument	"The direction_of_radial_vector_away_from_instrument is the direction in which the instrument itself is pointing. The direction is measured positive clockwise from due north. The ""instrument"" (examples are radar and lidar) is the device used to make an observation. ""direction_of_X"" means direction of a  vector, a bearing."
direction of sea ice displacement	"""direction_of_X"" means direction of a  vector, a bearing.  ""Displacement"" means the change in geospatial position of an object that has moved over time. If possible, the time interval over which the motion took place should be specified using a bounds variable for the time coordinate variable.  A displacement can be represented as a vector. Such a vector should however not be interpreted as describing a rectilinear, constant speed motion but merely as an indication that the start point of the vector is found at the tip of the vector after the time interval associated with the displacement variable.  A displacement does not prescribe a trajectory. Sea ice displacement can be defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component. In that case, ""displacement"" is also the distance across the earth's surface calculated from the change in a moving object's geospatial position between the start and end of the time interval associated with the displacement variable. The ""direction of displacement"" is the angle between due north and the displacement vector."
direction of sea ice velocity	"""direction_of_X"" means direction of a vector, a bearing. A velocity is a vector quantity. Sea ice velocity is defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component."
distance from geocenter	A measure of distance from the Earth's geocenter, commonly used in satellite tracks.
distance from sun	The distance from the sun to the point of observation.
distance from tropical cyclone center to leading edge of displaced convection	The great circle distance measured from the tropical cyclone center to the leading edge of displaced convection, which is defined as the closest point that exceeds a threshold brightness temperature at top of atmosphere limit. The threshold applied should be recorded in a coordinate variable having the standard name of toa_brightness_temperature. A coordinate variable with standard name of radiation_wavelength, sensor_band_central_radiation_wavelength, or radiation_frequency may be specified to indicate that the brightness temperature applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies.
divergence of sea ice velocity	"""[horizontal_]divergence_of_X"" means [horizontal] divergence of a vector X; if X does not have a vertical component then ""horizontal"" should be omitted. A velocity is a vector quantity. Sea ice velocity is defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component."
divergence of wind	"""[horizontal_]divergence_of_X"" means [horizontal] divergence of a vector X; if X does not have a vertical component then ""horizontal"" should be omitted. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
downward air velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity.""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Downward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector. The standard name upward_air_velocity may be used for a vector component with the opposite sign convention."
downward dry static energy flux due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward eastward momentum flux in air	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). ""Downward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor. Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure. It is a tensor quantity. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward eastward momentum flux in air due to diffusion	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  ""Downward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor.  Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure. It is a tensor quantity.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means thatthe quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the generalquantity  named by omitting the phrase."
downward eastward stress at sea ice base	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). ""Downward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor. A downward eastward stress is a downward flux of eastward momentum, which accelerates the lower medium eastward and the upper medium westward."
downward heat flux at ground level in snow	"ground_level means the land surface (beneath the snow and surface water, if any). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward heat flux at ground level in soil	"ground_level means the land surface (beneath the snow and surface water, if any). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward heat flux in air	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The vertical heat flux in air is the sum of all heat fluxes i.e. radiative, latent and sensible. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward heat flux in floating ice	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  ""Floating ice"" means any ice that is floating on water, e.g. on a sea or lake surface."
downward heat flux in sea ice	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward heat flux in soil	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward northward momentum flux in air	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). ""Downward northward"" indicates the ZY component of a tensor. Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure. It is a tensor quantity. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward northward momentum flux in air due to diffusion	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward).  ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  ""Downward northward"" indicates the ZY component of a tensor.  Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure. It is a tensor quantity.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
downward northward stress at sea ice base	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). ""Downward northward"" indicates the ZY component of a tensor. A downward northward stress is a downward flux of northward momentum, which accelerates the lower medium northward and the upper medium southward."
downward sea ice basal salt flux	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward water vapor flux in air due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downward x stress at sea ice base	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward)."
downward y stress at sea ice base	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward)."
downwelling longwave flux in air	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downwelling longwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"".  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"".  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  A phrase assuming_condition  indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all  aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition.  ""longwave"" means longwave radiation."
downwelling longwave radiance in air	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
downwelling photon flux in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downwelling photon flux per unit wavelength in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
downwelling photon radiance in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon radiance is the photon flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
downwelling photon radiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon radiance is the photon flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
downwelling photon spherical irradiance in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon spherical irradiance is the photon flux incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
downwelling photon spherical irradiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength. Photon spherical irradiance is the photon flux incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
downwelling photosynthetic photon flux in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downwelling photosynthetic photon radiance in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon radiance is the photon flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
downwelling photosynthetic photon spherical irradiance in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. Photon spherical irradiance is the photon flux incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. The direction (""up/downwelling"") is specified. Radiation incident on a 4-pi collector has a standard name referring to ""omnidirectional spherical irradiance"". A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
downwelling photosynthetic radiance in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength."
downwelling photosynthetic radiative flux in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downwelling photosynthetic spherical irradiance in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. Spherical irradiance is the radiation incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. It is sometimes called ""scalar irradiance"". The direction (up/downwelling) is specified. Radiation incident on a 4-pi collector has standard names of ""omnidirectional spherical irradiance""."
downwelling radiance in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
downwelling radiance per unit wavelength in air	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
downwelling radiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
downwelling radiative flux in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downwelling radiative flux per unit wavelength in air	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
downwelling radiative flux per unit wavelength in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"".  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
downwelling shortwave flux in air	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
downwelling shortwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"".  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"".  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  A phrase assuming_condition  indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all  aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition.  ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
downwelling shortwave flux in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"".  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"".  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
downwelling shortwave radiance in air	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
downwelling spherical irradiance in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Spherical irradiance is the radiation incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. It is sometimes called ""scalar irradiance"". The direction (up/downwelling) is specified. Radiation incident on a 4-pi collector has standard names of ""omnidirectional spherical irradiance""."
downwelling spherical irradiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Spherical irradiance is the radiation incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. It is sometimes called ""scalar irradiance"". The direction (up/downwelling) is specified. Radiation incident on a 4-pi collector has standard names of ""omnidirectional spherical irradiance"". A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
dry atmosphere mole fraction of carbon dioxide	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The construction ""dry_atmosphere_mole_fraction"" means that the quantity refers to the whole atmospheric column and is calculated as the total number of particles of X in the column divided by the number of dry air particles in the same column, i.e. the effect of water vapor is excluded. For localized values within the atmospheric medium, standard names including ""in_air"" are used. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
dry atmosphere mole fraction of methane	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The construction ""dry_atmosphere_mole_fraction"" means that the quantity refers to the whole atmospheric column and is calculated as the total number of particles of X in the column divided by the number of dry air particles in the same column, i.e. the effect of water vapor is excluded. For localized values within the atmospheric medium, standard names including ""in_air"" are used. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The chemical formula for methane is CH4."
dry energy content of atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Dry energy is the sum of dry static energy and kinetic energy. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
dry static energy content of atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
duration of sunshine	"The WMO definition of sunshine is that the surface incident radiative flux from the solar beam (i.e. excluding diffuse skylight) exceeds 120 W m-2. ""Duration"" is the length of time for which a condition holds."
dvorak tropical cyclone current intensity number	"""Dvorak current intensity number"" indicates the ranking of tropical cyclone strength (ranging from 1.0 to 8.0, increasing with storm intensity). The current intensity (CI) number is derived using the Advanced Dvorak Technique based on satellite observations over time. The CI number maps to a maximum sustained 1-minute wind speed and is derived by applying a series of intensity constraints to previous Dvorak-calculated trends of the same storm. Reference: Olander, T. L., & Velden, C. S., The Advanced Dvorak Technique: Continued Development of an Objective Scheme to Estimate Tropical Cyclone Intensity Using Geostationary Infrared Satellite Imagery (2007).  American Meteorological Society Weather and Forecasting, 22, 287-298."
dvorak tropical number	The Advanced Dvorak Technique (ADT) is used to derive a set of Dvorak Tropical numbers using an objective pattern recognition algorithm to determine the intensity of a tropical cyclone by matching observed brightness temperature patterns, maximum sustained winds and minimum sea level pressure to a set of pre-defined tropical cyclone structures. Dvorak Tropical numbers range from 1.0 to 8.0, increasing with storm intensity. Reference: Olander, T. L., & Velden, C. S., The Advanced Dvorak Technique: Continued Development of an Objective Scheme to Estimate Tropical Cyclone Intensity Using Geostationary Infrared Satellite Imagery (2007).  American Meterorological Society Weather and Forecasting, 22, 287-298.
dynamic tropopause potential temperature	The dynamical tropopause used in interpreting the dynamics of the upper troposphere and lower stratosphere.  There are various definitions of dynamical tropopause in the scientific literature.
eastward atmosphere dry static energy transport across unit distance	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Transport across_unit_distance means expressed per unit distance normal to the direction of transport. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
eastward atmosphere water transport across unit distance	"""Water"" means water in all phases. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Transport across_unit_distance means expressed per unit distance normal to the direction of transport."
eastward atmosphere water vapor transport across unit distance	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Transport across_unit_distance means expressed per unit distance normal to the direction of transport."
eastward derivative of northward sea ice velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity.  ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward).  Sea ice velocity is defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component.  ""component_derivative_of_X"" means  derivative of X with respect to distance in the component  direction, which may be northward, southward, eastward, westward, x or y. The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, in the case where they are not true longitude and latitude.  The named quantity is a component of the strain rate tensor for sea ice."
eastward flood water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Flood water is water that covers land which is normally not covered by water."
eastward land ice velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Land ice velocity is defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
eastward mass flux of air	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
eastward momentum flux correction	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure. It is a tensor quantity. Flux correction is also called ""flux adjustment"". A positive flux correction is downward i.e. added to the ocean. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
eastward sea ice displacement	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  ""Displacement"" means the change in geospatial position of an object that has moved over time. If possible, the time interval over which the motion took place should be specified using a bounds variable for the time coordinate variable.  A displacement can be represented as a vector. Such a vector should however not be interpreted as describing a rectilinear, constant speed motion but merely as an indication that the start point of the vector is found at the tip of the vector after the time interval associated with the displacement variable.  A displacement does not prescribe a trajectory. Sea ice displacement can be defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component. An eastward displacement is the distance calculated from the change in a moving object's longitude between the start and end of the time interval associated with the displacement variable."
eastward sea ice velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Sea ice velocity is defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component."
eastward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward)."
eastward sea water velocity assuming no tide	"A velocity is a vector quantity.  ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  A phrase assuming_condition  indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all  aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition."
eastward sea water velocity due to parameterized mesoscale eddies	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddies occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddies are represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme."
eastward transformed eulerian mean air velocity	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward)."
eastward water vapor flux in air	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
eastward water vapor transport across unit distance in atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Transport across_unit_distance means expressed per unit distance normal to the direction of transport."
eastward wind	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
eastward wind shear	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) Wind shear is the derivative of wind with respect to height."
effective radius of cloud condensed water particles at cloud top	"The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals,is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. ""cloud_top"" refers to the top of the  highest cloud. ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
effective radius of cloud liquid water particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution.
effective radius of cloud liquid water particle at liquid water cloud top	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud.
effective radius of convective cloud ice particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
effective radius of convective cloud liquid water particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
effective radius of convective cloud rain particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
effective radius of convective cloud snow particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
effective radius of stratiform cloud graupel particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).
effective radius of stratiform cloud ice particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).
effective radius of stratiform cloud liquid water particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).
effective radius of stratiform cloud rain particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).
effective radius of stratiform cloud snow particle	The effective radius of a size distribution of particles, such as aerosols, cloud droplets or ice crystals, is the area weighted mean radius of particle size. It is calculated as the ratio of the third to the second moment of the particle size distribution. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).
electrical mobility particle diameter	The diameter of an aerosol particle as selected by its electrical mobility.
enthalpy content of atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
equilibrium line altitude	Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level. The equilibrium line is the locus of points on a land ice surface at which ice accumulation balances ice ablation over the year.
equivalent potential temperature	Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure.
equivalent pressure of atmosphere ozone content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The equivalent pressure of a particular constituent of the atmosphere is the surface pressure exerted by the weight of that constituent alone."
equivalent reflectivity factor	"""Equivalent reflectivity factor""  is the radar reflectivity factor that is calculated from the measured radar return power assuming the target is composed of liquid water droplets whose diameter is less than one tenth of the radar wavelength, i.e., treating the droplets as Rayleigh scatterers.  The actual radar reflectivity factor would depend on the size distribution and composition of the particles within the target volume and these are  often unknown."
equivalent thickness at stp of atmosphere ozone content	"""stp"" means standard temperature (0 degC) and pressure (101325 Pa). ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The equivalent thickness at STP of a particular constituent of the atmosphere is the thickness of the layer that the gas would occupy if it was separated from the other constituents and gathered together at STP. equivalent_thickness_at_stp_of_atmosphere_ozone_content is usually measured in Dobson Units which are equivalent to 446.2 micromoles m-2 or an equivalent thickness at STP of 10 micrometers. N.B. Data variables containing column content of ozone can be given the standard name of either equivalent_thickness_at_stp_of_atmosphere_ozone_content or atmosphere_mole_content_of_ozone. The latter name is recommended for consistency with mole content names for chemical species other than ozone."
fast soil pool carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""soil content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface down to the bottom of the soil model. For the content between specified levels in the soil, standard names including content_of_soil_layer are used.  ""Soil carbon"" is the organic matter present in soil quantified by the mass of carbon it contains. Soil carbon is returned to the atmosphere as the organic matter decays. The decay process takes varying amounts of time depending on the composition of the organic matter, the temperature and the availability of moisture. A carbon ""soil pool"" means the carbon contained in organic matter which has a characteristic period over which it decays and releases carbon into the atmosphere. ""Fast soil pool"" refers to the decay of organic matter in soil with a characteristic period of less than ten years under reference climate conditions of a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius and no water limitations."
final air pressure of lifted parcel	"Various stability and convective potential indices are calculated by ""lifting"" a parcel of air: moving it dry adiabatically from a starting height (often the surface) to the Lifting Condensation Level, and then wet adiabatically from there to an ending height (often the top of the data/model/atmosphere). The quantities with standard names original_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel and final_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel are the ambient air pressure at the start and end of lifting, respectively. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
fire area	"""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. The extent of an individual grid cell is defined by the horizontal coordinates and any associated coordinate bounds or by a string valued auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of ""region"". ""Fire area"" means the area of detected biomass fire."
fire radiative power	The product of the irradiance (the power per unit area) of a biomass fire and the corresponding fire area. A data variable containing the area affected by fire should be given the standard name fire_area.
fire temperature	The overall temperature of a fire area due to contributions from smoldering and flaming biomass. A data variable containing the area affected by fire should be given the standard name fire_area.
floating ice shelf area	"""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. The extent of an individual grid cell is defined by the horizontal coordinates and any associated coordinate bounds or by a string valued auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of ""region"". A ""floating ice shelf"", sometimes called a ""floating ice sheet"", indicates where an ice sheet extending from a land area flows over sea water."
floating ice shelf area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. A ""floating ice shelf"", sometimes called a ""floating ice sheet"", indicates where an ice sheet extending from a land area flows over sea water."
floating ice thickness	"""Floating ice"" means any ice that is floating on water, e.g. on a sea or lake surface.  ""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of the ice."
flood water duration above threshold	The  quantity with standard name flood_water_duration_above_threshold is the time elapsed between the instant when the flood depth first rises above a given threshold until the time falls below the same threshold for the last time at a given point in space. If a threshold is supplied, it should be specified by associating a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the data variable and giving the coordinate variable a standard name of flood_water_thickness. The values of the coordinate variable are the threshold values for the corresponding subarrays of the data variable. If no threshold is specified, its value is taken to be zero. Flood water is water that covers land which is normally not covered by water.
flood water speed	Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Flood water is water that covers land which is normally not covered by water.
flood water thickness	"The flood_water_thickness is the vertical distance between the surface of the flood water and the surface of the solid ground, as measured at a given point in space. The standard name ground_level_altitude is used for a data variable giving the geometric height of the ground surface above the geoid. ""Flood water"" is water that covers land which is normally not covered by water."
fog area fraction	"Fog means water droplets or minute ice crystals close to the surface which reduce visibility in air to less than 1000m. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X."
forecast period	Forecast period is the time interval between the forecast reference time and the validity time. A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation.
forecast reference time	"The forecast reference time in NWP is the ""data time"", the time of the analysis from which the forecast was made. It is not the time for which the forecast is valid; the standard name of time should be used for that time."
fraction of surface downwelling photosynthetic radiative flux absorbed by vegetation	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". The quantity with standard name fraction_of_surface_downwelling_photosynthetic_radiative_flux_absorbed_by_vegetation, often called Fraction of Absorbed Photosynthetically Active Radiation (FAPAR), is the fraction of incoming solar radiation in the photosynthetically active radiation spectral region that is absorbed by a vegetation canopy. ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of ""radiation_wavelength"". The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". ""Vegetation"" means any plants e.g. trees, shrubs, grass. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
fractional saturation of oxygen in sea water	Fractional saturation is the ratio of some measure of concentration to the saturated value of the same quantity.
freezing level altitude	Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level.
frozen water content of soil layer	"""frozen_water"" means ice. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Quantities defined for a soil layer must have a vertical coordinate variable with boundaries indicating the extent of the layer(s)."
geoid height above reference ellipsoid	The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean). In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. A reference ellipsoid is a regular mathematical figure that approximates the irregular shape of the geoid. A number of reference ellipsoids are defined for use in the field of geodesy. To specify which reference ellipsoid is being used, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention.
geopotential	Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy.
geopotential height	Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. Geopotential height is the geopotential divided by the standard acceleration due to gravity. It is numerically similar to the altitude (or geometric height) and not to the quantity with standard name height, which is relative to the surface.
geopotential height anomaly	"""anomaly"" means difference from climatology. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. Geopotential height is the geopotential divided by the standard acceleration due to gravity. It is numerically similar to the altitude (or geometric height) and not to the quantity with standard name height, which is relative to the surface."
geopotential height at cloud top	"Cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. Geopotential height is the geopotential divided by the standard acceleration due to gravity. It is numerically similar to the altitude (or geometric height) and not to the quantity with standard name ""height"", which is relative to the surface."
geopotential height at volcanic ash cloud top	"Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. Geopotential height is the geopotential divided by the standard acceleration due to gravity. It is numerically similar to the altitude (or geometric height) and not to the quantity with standard name ""height"", which is relative to the surface. ""Volcanic_ash"" means the fine-grained products of explosive volcanic eruptions, such as minerals or crystals, older fragmented rock (e.g. andesite), and glass. Particles within a volcanic ash cloud have diameters less than 2 mm. ""Volcanic_ash"" does not include non-volcanic dust."
geostrophic eastward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars."
geostrophic eastward wind	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars."
geostrophic northward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars."
geostrophic northward wind	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars."
global average sea level change	"Global average sea level change is due to change in volume of the water in the ocean, caused by mass and/or density change, or to change in the volume of the ocean basins, caused by tectonics etc. It is sometimes called ""eustatic"", which is a term that also has other definitions. It differs from the change in the global average sea surface height relative to the centre of the Earth by the global average vertical movement of the ocean floor. Zero sea level change is an arbitrary level. Because global average sea level change quantifies the change in volume of the world ocean, it is not calculated necessarily by considering local changes in mean sea level."
global average steric sea level change	Global average steric sea level change is caused by changes in sea water density due to changes in temperature (thermosteric) and salinity (halosteric). This in turn results in a change in volume of the world ocean. Zero sea level change is an arbitrary level. Because global average sea level change quantifies the change in volume of the world ocean, it is not calculated necessarily by considering local changes in mean sea level.
global average thermosteric sea level change	Global average thermosteric sea level change is the part caused by change in density due to change in temperature i.e. thermal expansion. This in turn results in a change in volume of the world ocean. Zero sea level change is an arbitrary level. Because global average sea level change quantifies the change in volume of the world ocean, it is not calculated necessarily by considering local changes in mean sea level.
graupel fall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Graupel consists of heavily rimed snow particles, often called snow pellets; often indistinguishable from very small soft hail except for the size convention that hail must have a diameter greater than 5 mm. Reference: American Meteorological Society Glossary http://glossary.ametsoc.org/wiki/Graupel."
grid latitude	Latitude is positive northward; its units of degree_north (or equivalent) indicate this explicitly. In a latitude-longitude system defined with respect to a rotated North Pole, the standard name of grid_latitude should be used instead of latitude. Grid latitude is positive in the grid-northward direction, but its units should be plain degree.
grid longitude	Longitude is positive eastward; its units of degree_east (or equivalent) indicate this explicitly. In a latitude-longitude system defined with respect to a rotated North Pole, the standard name of grid_longitude should be used instead of longitude. Grid longitude is positive in the grid-eastward direction, but its units should be plain degree.
gross primary productivity of biomass expressed as carbon	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Gross primary production is the rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton. The producers also respire some of this biomass and the difference is ""net_primary_production"". ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
gross rate of decrease in area fraction	"The ""gross rate of decrease in area fraction"" is the fraction of a grid cell that transitions from a given area type per unit time, for example, as a result of land use changes. The quantity described by this standard name is a gross decrease because it includes only land where the use transitions away from the given area type and excludes land that transitions to that area type during the same period. The area type should be specified using a coordinate of scalar coordinate variable with standard name area_type. There is also a standard name for gross_rate_of_increase_in_area_fraction."
gross rate of increase in area fraction	"The ""rate of increase in area fraction"" is the fraction of a grid cell that transitions to a given area type per unit time, for example, as a result of land use changes. The quantity described by this standard name is a gross increase because it includes only land where the use transitions to the given area type and excludes land that transitions away from that area type during the same period. The area type should be specified using a coordinate or scalar coordinate variable with standard name area_type. There is also a standard name for gross_rate_of_decrease_in_area_fraction."
ground level altitude	The ground_level_altitude is the geometric height of the upper boundary of the solid Earth above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level.
grounded ice sheet area	"""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. The extent of an individual grid cell is defined by the horizontal coordinates and any associated coordinate bounds or by a string valued auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of ""region"". ""Grounded ice sheet"" indicates where the ice sheet rests over bedrock and is thus grounded. It excludes ice-caps, glaciers and floating ice shelves."
grounded ice sheet area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""Grounded ice sheet"" indicates where the ice sheet rests over bedrock and is thus grounded. It excludes ice-caps, glaciers and floating ice shelves."
growth limitation of calcareous phytoplankton due to solar irradiance	"""Calcareous phytoplankton"" are phytoplankton that produce calcite.  Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Irradiance"" means the power per unit area (called radiative flux in other standard names), the area being normal to the direction of flow of the radiant energy. Solar irradiance is essential to the photosynthesis reaction and its presence promotes the growth of phytoplankton populations. ""Growth limitation due to solar irradiance"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where the amount of sunlight reaching a location may be limited) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on solar irradiance."
growth limitation of diatoms due to solar irradiance	"Diatoms are phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Irradiance"" means the power per unit area (called radiative flux in other standard names), the area being normal to the direction of flow of the radiant energy. Solar irradiance is essential to the photosynthesis reaction and its presence promotes the growth of phytoplankton populations. ""Growth limitation due to solar irradiance"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where the amount of sunlight reaching a location may be limited) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on solar irradiance."
growth limitation of diazotrophs due to solar irradiance	"In ocean modelling, diazotrophs are phytoplankton of the phylum cyanobacteria distinct from other phytoplankton groups in their ability to fix nitrogen gas in addition to nitrate and ammonium. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Irradiance"" means the power per unit area (called radiative flux in other standard names), the area being normal to the direction of flow of the radiant energy. Solar irradiance is essential to the photosynthesis reaction and its presence promotes the growth of phytoplankton populations. ""Growth limitation due to solar irradiance"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where the amount of sunlight reaching a location may be limited) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on solar irradiance."
growth limitation of miscellaneous phytoplankton due to solar irradiance	"Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Miscellaneous phytoplankton"" are all those phytoplankton that are not diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton or other separately named components of the phytoplankton population. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Irradiance"" means the power per unit area (called radiative flux in other standard names), the area being normal to the direction of flow of the radiant energy. Solar irradiance is essential to the photosynthesis reaction and its presence promotes the growth of phytoplankton populations. ""Growth limitation due to solar irradiance"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where the amount of sunlight reaching a location may be limited) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on solar irradiance."
growth limitation of picophytoplankton due to solar irradiance	"Picophytoplankton are phytoplankton of less than 2 micrometers in size. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Irradiance"" means the power per unit area (called radiative flux in other standard names), the area being normal to the direction of flow of the radiant energy. Solar irradiance is essential to the photosynthesis reaction and its presence promotes the growth of phytoplankton populations. ""Growth limitation due to solar irradiance"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where the amount of sunlight reaching a location may be limited) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on solar irradiance."
halosteric change in mean sea level	"Halosteric sea level change is the part caused by change in sea water density due to change in salinity. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. Zero mean sea level change is an arbitrary level. The sum of the quantities with standard names thermosteric_change_in_mean_sea_level and halosteric_change_in_mean_sea_level has the standard name steric_change_in_mean_sea_level."
halosteric change in sea surface height	"""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. The halosteric change in sea surface height is the change in height that a water column of standard practical salinity S=35.0 would undergo when its salinity is changed to the observed value. The sum of the quantities with standard names thermosteric_change_in_sea_surface_height and halosteric_change_in_sea_surface_height is the total steric change in the water column height, which has the standard name of steric_change_in_sea_surface_height."
harmonic period	A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation.
heat flux correction	"Flux correction is also called ""flux adjustment"". A positive flux correction is downward i.e. added to the ocean. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
heat flux into sea water due to freezing of frazil ice	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Frazil"" consists of needle like crystals of ice, typically between three and four millimeters in diameter, which form as sea water begins to freeze. Salt is expelled during the freezing process and frazil ice consists of nearly pure fresh water."
heat flux into sea water due to iceberg thermodynamics	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  "" Iceberg thermodynamics"" refers to the addition or subtraction of mass due to surface and basal fluxes, i.e., due to melting, sublimation and fusion."
heat flux into sea water due to newtonian relaxation	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  The heat_flux_into_sea_water_due_to_newtonian_relaxation is the heat flux resulting from the Newtonian relaxation of the sea surface temperature. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
heat flux into sea water due to sea ice thermodynamics	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""Sea ice thermodynamics"" refers to the addition or subtraction of mass due to surface and basal fluxes, i.e., due to melting, sublimation and fusion."
heat flux into sea water due to snow thermodynamics	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""Snow thermodynamics"" refers to the addition or subtraction of mass due to surface and basal fluxes, i.e., due to melting, sublimation and fusion."
height	Height is the vertical distance above the surface.
height above geopotential datum	"""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. The ""geopotential datum"" is any estimated surface of constant geopotential used as a datum i.e. a reference level; for the geoid as a datum, specific standard names are available. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
height above geopotential datum at top of atmosphere model	"""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. The ""geopotential datum"" is any estimated surface of constant geopotential used as a datum i.e. a reference level; for the geoid as a datum, specific standard names are available. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention. ""Top of atmosphere model"" means the upper boundary of the top layer of an atmosphere model."
height above mean sea level	"""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals."
height above reference ellipsoid	"""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. A reference ellipsoid is a mathematical figure that approximates the geoid. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. The ellipsoid is an approximation because the geoid is an irregular shape. A number of reference ellipsoids are defined for use in the field of geodesy. To specify which reference ellipsoid is being used, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
height at cloud top	cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud. Height is the vertical distance above the surface.
height at effective cloud top defined by infrared radiation	"The ""effective cloud top defined by infrared radiation"" is (approximately) the geometric height above the surface that is one optical depth at infrared wavelengths (in the region of 11 micrometers) below the cloud top that would be detected by visible and lidar techniques. Reference: Minnis, P. et al 2011 CERES Edition-2 Cloud Property Retrievals Using TRMM VIRS and Terra and Aqua MODIS Data x2014; Part I: Algorithms IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 49(11), 4374-4400. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TGRS.2011.2144601."
heterotrophic respiration carbon flux	"""Respiration carbon"" refers to the rate at which biomass is respired expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Heterotrophic respiration is respiration by heterotrophs (""consumers""), which are organisms (including animals and decomposers) that consume other organisms or dead organic material, rather than synthesising organic material from inorganic precursors using energy from the environment (especially sunlight) as autotrophs (""producers"") do. Heterotrophic respiration goes on both above and within the soil. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
high type cloud area fraction	"High type clouds are: Cirrus, Cirrostratus, Cirrocumulus. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". X_type_cloud_area_fraction is generally determined on the basis of cloud type, though Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) models often calculate them based on the vertical location of the cloud."
histogram of backscattering ratio over height above reference ellipsoid	"Scattering of radiation is its deflection from its incident path without loss of energy.  Backwards scattering refers to the sum of scattering into all backward angles i.e. scattering_angle exceeding pi/2 radians. A scattering_angle should not be specified with this quantity. ""Backscattering ratio"" is the ratio of the quantity with standard name volume_attenuated_backwards_scattering_function_in_air to the quantity with standard name volume_attenuated_backwards_scattering_function_in_air_assuming_no_aerosol_or_cloud. ""histogram_of_X[_over_Z]"" means histogram (i.e. number of counts for each range of X) of variations (over Z) of X. The data variable should have an axis for X. A reference ellipsoid is a regular mathematical figure that approximates the irregular shape of the geoid. A number of reference ellipsoids are defined for use in the field of geodesy. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. To specify which reference ellipsoid is being used, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
histogram of equivalent reflectivity factor over height above reference ellipsoid	"""Equivalent reflectivity factor"" is the radar reflectivity factor that is calculated from the measured radar return power assuming the target is composed of liquid water droplets whose diameter is less than one tenth of the radar wavelength, i.e., treating the droplets as Rayleigh scatterers. The actual radar reflectivity factor would depend on the size distribution and composition of the particles within the target volume and these are often unknown. ""histogram_of_X[_over_Z]"" means histogram (i.e. number of counts for each  range of X) of variations (over Z) of X. The data variable should have an axis for X. A reference ellipsoid is a regular mathematical figure that approximates the irregular shape of the geoid. A number of reference ellipsoids are defined for use in the field of geodesy. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. To specify which reference ellipsoid is being used, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
horizontal atmosphere dry energy transport	Dry energy is the sum of dry static energy and kinetic energy. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume.
horizontal dry energy transport in atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Dry energy is the sum of dry static energy and kinetic energy. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
humidity mixing ratio	Humidity mixing ratio of a parcel of moist air is the ratio of the mass of water vapor to the mass of dry air.
ice cloud area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". The cloud area fraction is for the whole atmosphere column, as seen from the surface or the top of the atmosphere. The cloud area fraction in a layer of the atmosphere has the standard name cloud_area_fraction_in_atmosphere_layer."
ice cloud area fraction in atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be ""model_level_number"", but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover""."
institution	An auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of institution contains string values which specify where the original data, with which the coordinate variable is associated, were produced. The use of institution as the standard name for an auxiliary coordinate variable permits the aggregation of data from multiple institutions within a single data file.
integral wrt depth of product of sea water density and conservative temperature	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. The phrase ""wrt"" means ""with respect to"". Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. The phrase ""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Sea water density is the in-situ density (not the potential density). For Boussinesq models, density is the constant Boussinesq reference density, a quantity which has the standard name reference_sea_water_density_for_boussinesq_approximation. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2."
integral wrt depth of product of sea water density and potential temperature	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. The phrase ""wrt"" means ""with respect to"". The phrase ""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. Sea water density is the in-situ density (not the potential density). For Boussinesq models, density is the constant Boussinesq reference density, a quantity which has the standard name reference_sea_water_density_for_boussinesq_approximation. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure."
integral wrt depth of product of sea water density and salinity	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. The phrase ""wrt"" means ""with respect to"". The phrase ""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. Sea water density is the in-situ density (not the potential density). For Boussinesq models, density is the constant Boussinesq reference density, a quantity which has the standard name reference_sea_water_density_for_boussinesq_approximation. Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and the units attribute should normally be given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. Practical salinity units are dimensionless. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
integral wrt depth of sea ice temperature expressed as heat content	"The quantity with standard name integral_wrt_depth_of_sea_ice_temperature_expressed_as_heat_content is calculated relative to the heat content of ice at zero degrees Celsius, which is assumed to have a heat content of zero Joules. The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. Depth is the vertical distance below the surface."
integral wrt depth of sea water potential temperature expressed as heat content	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the (assumed constant) specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the integral, over the specified layer of the ocean, of the sea water potential temperature wrt depth. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure."
integral wrt depth of sea water practical salinity	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. Practical Salinity, S_P, is a determination of the salinity of sea water, based on its electrical conductance. The measured conductance, corrected for temperature and pressure, is compared to the conductance of a standard  potassium chloride solution, producing a value on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78). This name should not be used to describe salinity observations made before 1978, or ones not based on conductance measurements. Conversion of Practical Salinity to other precisely defined salinity measures should use the appropriate formulas specified by TEOS-10. Other standard names for precisely defined salinity quantities are sea_water_absolute_salinity (S_A); sea_water_preformed_salinity (S_*), sea_water_reference_salinity (S_R); sea_water_cox_salinity (S_C), used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977; and sea_water_knudsen_salinity (S_K), used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions should be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Lewis, 1980 doi:10.1109/JOE.1980.1145448."
integral wrt depth of sea water temperature in ocean layer	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
integral wrt depth of tendency of sea water alkalinity expressed as mole equivalent	"Depth is the vertical distance below the surface.   'sea_water_alkalinity_expressed_as_mole_equivalent' is the total alkalinity equivalent concentration (including carbonate, nitrogen, silicate, and borate components). ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""wrt"" means with respect to."
integral wrt depth of tendency of sea water alkalinity expressed as mole equivalent due to biological processes	"Depth is the vertical distance below the surface.   'sea_water_alkalinity_expressed_as_mole_equivalent' is the total alkalinity equivalent concentration (including carbonate, nitrogen, silicate, and borate components). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""wrt"" means with respect to."
integral wrt height of product of eastward wind and specific humidity	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. The phrase ""wrt"" means ""with respect to"". Height is the vertical distance above the surface. The phrase ""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name ""upward_air_velocity"".) ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
integral wrt height of product of northward wind and specific humidity	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. The phrase ""wrt"" means ""with respect to"". Height is the vertical distance above the surface. The phrase ""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name ""upward_air_velocity"".) ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
integral wrt time of air temperature deficit	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. The air temperature deficit is the air temperature threshold minus the air temperature, where only positive values are included in the integral. Its integral with respect to time is often called after its units of ""degree-days"". The air_temperature variable, which is the data variable of the integral should have a scalar coordinate variable or a size-one coordinate variable with the standard name of air_temperature_threshold, to indicate the threshold."
integral wrt time of air temperature excess	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. The air temperature excess is the air temperature minus the air temperature threshold, where only positive values are included in the integral. Its integral with respect to time is often called after its units of ""degree-days"". The air_temperature variable, which is the data variable of the integral should have a scalar coordinate variable or a size-one coordinate variable with the standard name of air_temperature_threshold, to indicate the threshold."
integral wrt time of surface downward eastward stress	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). ""Downward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor. A downward eastward stress is a downward flux of eastward momentum, which accelerates the lower medium eastward and the upper medium westward. The surface downward stress is the wind stress on the surface."
integral wrt time of surface downward latent heat flux	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The surface latent heat flux is the exchange of heat between the surface and the air on account of evaporation (including sublimation). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
integral wrt time of surface downward northward stress	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). ""Downward northward"" indicates the ZY component of a tensor. A downward northward stress is a downward flux of northward momentum, which accelerates the lower medium northward and the upper medium southward. The surface downward stress is the wind stress on the surface."
integral wrt time of surface downward sensible heat flux	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The surface sensible heat flux, also called ""turbulent"" heat flux, is the exchange of heat between the surface and the air by motion of air. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
integral wrt time of surface downwelling longwave flux in air	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
integral wrt time of surface downwelling shortwave flux in air	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Surface downwelling shortwave is the sum of direct and diffuse solar radiation incident on the surface, and is sometimes called ""global radiation"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
integral wrt time of surface net downward longwave flux	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
integral wrt time of surface net downward shortwave flux	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). ""Shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
integral wrt time of toa net downward shortwave flux	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling).  ""Shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
integral wrt time of toa outgoing longwave flux	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Longwave"" means longwave radiation. The TOA outgoing longwave flux is the upwelling thermal radiative flux, often called the ""outgoing longwave radiation"" or ""OLR"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
iron growth limitation of calcareous phytoplankton	"""Calcareous phytoplankton"" are phytoplankton that produce calcite. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Iron growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of iron) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on iron availability."
iron growth limitation of diatoms	"Diatoms are phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Iron growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of iron) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on iron availability."
iron growth limitation of diazotrophs	"In ocean modelling, diazotrophs are phytoplankton of the phylum cyanobacteria distinct from other phytoplankton groups in their ability to fix nitrogen gas in addition to nitrate and ammonium. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Iron growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of iron) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on iron availability."
iron growth limitation of miscellaneous phytoplankton	"Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Miscellaneous phytoplankton"" are all those phytoplankton that are not diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton or other separately named components of the phytoplankton population. ""Iron growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of iron) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on iron availability."
iron growth limitation of picophytoplankton	"Picophytoplankton are phytoplankton of less than 2 micrometers in size. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Iron growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of iron) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on iron availability."
isccp cloud area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". The cloud area fraction is for the whole atmosphere column, as seen from the surface or the top of the atmosphere. The cloud area fraction in a layer of the atmosphere has the standard name cloud_area_fraction_in_atmosphere_layer. The ISCCP cloud area fraction is diagnosed from atmosphere model output by the ISCCP simulator software in such a way as to be comparable with the observational diagnostics of ISCCP (the International Satellite Cloud Climatology Project)."
isotropic longwave radiance in air	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. If radiation is isotropic, the radiance is independent of direction, so the direction should not be specified. If the radiation is directionally dependent, a standard name of upwelling or downwelling radiance should be chosen instead."
isotropic radiance per unit wavelength in air	Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. If radiation is isotropic, the radiance is independent of direction, so the direction should not be specified. If the radiation is directionally dependent, a standard name of upwelling or downwelling radiance should be chosen instead. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength.
isotropic shortwave radiance in air	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. If radiation is isotropic, the radiance is independent of direction, so the direction should not be specified. If the radiation is directionally dependent, a standard name of upwelling or downwelling radiance should be chosen instead."
kinetic energy content of atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
lagrangian tendency of air pressure	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The Lagrangian tendency of a quantity is its rate of change following the motion of the fluid, also called the ""material derivative"" or ""convective derivative"". The Lagrangian tendency of air pressure, often called ""omega"", plays the role of the upward component of air velocity when air pressure is being used as the vertical coordinate. If the vertical air velocity is upwards, it is negative when expressed as a tendency of air pressure; downwards is positive. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
lagrangian tendency of atmosphere sigma coordinate	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The Lagrangian tendency of a quantity is its rate of change following the motion of the fluid, also called the ""material derivative"" or ""convective derivative"". The Lagrangian tendency of sigma plays the role of the upward component of air velocity when the atmosphere sigma coordinate (a dimensionless atmosphere vertical coordinate) is being used as the vertical coordinate. If the vertical air velocity is upwards, it is negative when expressed as a tendency of sigma; downwards is positive. See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates."
land area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell."
land binary mask	X_binary_mask has 1 where condition X is met, 0 elsewhere. 1 = land, 0 = sea.
land cover lccs	A variable with the standard name of land_cover_sccs contains strings which indicate the nature of the surface, e.g. cropland_..., tree_... . These strings are standardised. Values must be combinations of classifiers from the Land Cover Classification System (LCCS; Di Gregorio A., 2005, UN Land Cover Classification System (LCCS) - Classification concepts and user manual for Software version 2; available at www.fao.org/DOCREP/003/X0596E/X0596e00.htm).
land ice area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X.  ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
land ice basal melt rate	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves.  The land ice basal melt rate is the rate at which ice is lost per unit area at the base of the ice."
land ice basal specific mass balance flux	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. ""Specific mass balance"" means the net rate at which ice is added per unit area. A negative value means loss of ice. For an area-average, the cell_methods attribute should be used to specify whether the average is over the area of the whole grid cell or the area of land ice only. ""Basal specific mass balance"" means the net rate at which ice is added per unit area at the land ice base."
land ice basal upward velocity	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward)."
land ice basal x velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
land ice basal y velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
land ice calving rate	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. The land ice calving rate is the rate at which ice is lost per unit area through calving into the ocean."
land ice lwe basal melt rate	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. The land ice basal melt rate is the rate at which ice is lost per unit area at the base of the ice."
land ice lwe calving rate	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. The land ice calving rate is the rate at which ice is lost per unit area through calving into the ocean."
land ice lwe surface specific mass balance rate	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. Specific mass balance means the net rate at which ice is added per unit area at the land ice surface due to all processes of surface accumulation and ablation. A negative value means loss of ice."
land ice runoff flux	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage. Runoff flux over land ice is the difference between any available liquid water in the snowpack due to rainfall and melting minus any refreezing and liquid water retained in the snowpack. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
land ice sigma coordinate	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
land ice specific mass flux due to calving	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. ""Specific mass flux due to calving"" means the change in land ice mass per unit area resulting from iceberg calving. A negative value means loss of ice. For an area-average, the cell_methods attribute should be used to specify whether the average is over the area of the whole grid cell or the area of land ice only. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
land ice specific mass flux due to calving and ice front melting	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. ""Specific mass flux due to calving and ice front melting"" means the change in land ice mass per unit area resulting from iceberg calving and melting on the vertical ice front. A negative value means loss of ice. For an area-average, the cell_methods attribute should be used to specify whether the average is over the area of the whole grid cell or the area of land ice only. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
land ice surface melt flux	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The land_ice_surface_melt_flux is the loss of ice mass resulting from surface melting. For an area-average, the cell_methods attribute should be used to specify whether the average is over the area of the whole grid cell or the area of land ice only. There is also a standard name for the quantity surface_snow_and_ice_melt_flux."
land ice surface specific mass balance flux	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. ""Specific mass balance"" means the net rate at which ice is added per unit area. A negative value means loss of ice. For an area-average, the cell_methods attribute should be used to specify whether the average is over the area of the whole grid cell or the area of land ice only. ""Surface specific mass balance"" means the net rate at which ice is added per unit area at the land ice surface due to all processes of surface accumulation and ablation."
land ice surface specific mass balance rate	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. Specific mass balance means the net rate at which ice is added at the land ice surface due to all processes of surface accumulation and ablation. A negative value means loss of ice."
land ice surface upward velocity	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
land ice surface x velocity	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
land ice surface y velocity	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
land ice temperature	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
land ice thickness	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. ""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer."
land ice vertical mean x velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. The vertical mean land ice velocity is the average from the bedrock to the surface of the ice."
land ice vertical mean y velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. The vertical mean land ice velocity is the average from the bedrock to the surface of the ice."
land ice x velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
land ice y velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
latitude	Latitude is positive northward; its units of degree_north (or equivalent) indicate this explicitly. In a latitude-longitude system defined with respect to a rotated North Pole, the standard name of grid_latitude should be used instead of latitude. Grid latitude is positive in the grid-northward direction, but its units should be plain degree.
leaf area index	"""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell."
leaf carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area."
lightning radiant energy	"The standard name ""lightning radiant energy"" means the energy emitted as electromagnetic radiation due to lightning. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength, radiation_frequency, or sensor_band_central_wavelength may be specified to indicate that the lightning_radiant_energy applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. Bounds of the time and spatial coordinates may be specified to indicate the time interval and spatial extent over which the energy is emitted."
liquid water cloud area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". The cloud area fraction is for the whole atmosphere column, as seen from the surface or the top of the atmosphere. The cloud area fraction in a layer of the atmosphere has the standard name cloud_area_fraction_in_atmosphere_layer. The chemical formula for water is H2O."
liquid water cloud area fraction in atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be ""model_level_number"", but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". The chemical formula for water is H2O."
liquid water content of permafrost layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  Permafrost is soil or rock that has remained at a temperature at or below zero degrees Celsius throughout the seasonal cycle for two or more years."
liquid water content of soil layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Quantities defined for a soil layer must have a vertical coordinate variable with boundaries indicating the extent of the layer(s)."
liquid water content of surface snow	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
litter carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Litter carbon"" is dead inorganic material in or above the soil quantified as the mass of carbon which it contains."
litter carbon flux	"""Litter carbon"" is dead inorganic material in or above the soil quantified as the mass of carbon which it contains. The litter carbon flux is the rate of production of litter. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
log10 size interval based number size distribution of cloud condensation nuclei at stp in air	"The cloud condensation nuclei number size distribution is the number concentration of aerosol particles, normalised to the decadal logarithmic size interval the concentration applies to, as a function of particle diameter, where the particle acts as condensation nucleus for liquid-phase clouds. A coordinate variable with the standard name of relative_humidity should be specified to indicate that the property refers to a specific supersaturation with respect to liquid water. A coordinate variable with the standard name of electrical_mobility_particle_diameter should be specified to indicate that the property applies at specific mobility particle sizes. To specify the relative humidity at which the particle sizes were selected, provide a scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of relative_humidity_for_aerosol_particle_size_selection. The ability of a particle to act as a condensation nucleus is determined by its size, chemical composition, and morphology. ""log10_X"" means common logarithm (i.e. base 10) of X. ""stp"" means standard temperature (0 degC) and pressure (101325 Pa)."
longitude	Longitude is positive eastward; its units of degree_east (or equivalent) indicate this explicitly. In a latitude-longitude system defined with respect to a rotated North Pole, the standard name of grid_longitude should be used instead of longitude. Grid longitude is positive in the grid-eastward direction, but its units should be plain degree.
low type cloud area fraction	"Low type clouds are: Stratus, Stratocumulus, Cumulus, Cumulonimbus. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". X_type_cloud_area_fraction is generally determined on the basis of cloud type, though Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) models often calculate them based on the vertical location of the cloud."
lwe convective precipitation rate	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent."
lwe convective snowfall rate	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent."
lwe precipitation rate	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent."
lwe snowfall rate	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent."
lwe stratiform precipitation rate	"Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud.  ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent."
lwe stratiform snowfall rate	"Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud.  ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent."
lwe thickness of atmosphere mass content of water vapor	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Atmosphere water vapor content is sometimes referred to as ""precipitable water"", although this term does not imply the water could all be precipitated."
lwe thickness of canopy water amount	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. ""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy. The canopy water is the water on the canopy."
lwe thickness of convective precipitation amount	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area."
lwe thickness of convective snowfall amount	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area."
lwe thickness of frozen water content of soil layer	"""frozen_water"" means ice. ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Quantities defined for a soil layer must have a vertical coordinate variable with boundaries indicating the extent of the layer(s)."
lwe thickness of moisture content of soil layer	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""moisture"" means water in all phases contained in soil. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Quantities defined for a soil layer must have a vertical coordinate variable with boundaries indicating the extent of the layer(s)."
lwe thickness of precipitation amount	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area."
lwe thickness of snowfall amount	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area."
lwe thickness of soil moisture content	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""moisture"" means water in all phases contained in soil. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""soil content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface down to the bottom of the soil model. For the content between specified levels in the soil, standard names including content_of_soil_layer are used."
lwe thickness of stratiform precipitation amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area.  Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud."
lwe thickness of stratiform snowfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent.  The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area.  Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud."
lwe thickness of surface snow amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area. Surface amount refers to the amount on the ground, excluding that on the plant or vegetation canopy."
lwe thickness of water evaporation amount	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".)"
lwe water evaporation rate	"""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent. ""Water"" means water in all phases. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".)"
magnitude of derivative of position wrt model level number	"The quantity with standard name magnitude_of_derivative_of_position_wrt_model_level_number (known in differential geometry as a ""scale factor"") is | (dr/dk)ij|, where r(i,j,k) is the vector 3D position of the point with coordinate indices (i,j,k). It is a measure of the gridblock spacing in the z-direction."
magnitude of derivative of position wrt x coordinate index	"The quantity with standard name magnitude_of_derivative_of_position_wrt_x_coordinate_index (known in differential geometry as a ""scale factor"") is | (dr/di)jk|, where r(i,j,k) is the vector 3D position of the point with coordinate indices (i,j,k). It is a measure of the gridblock spacing in the x-direction."
magnitude of derivative of position wrt y coordinate index	"The quantity with standard name magnitude_of_derivative_of_position_wrt_y_coordinate_index (known in differential geometry as a ""scale factor"") is | (dr/dj)ik|, where r(i,j,k) is the vector 3D position of the point with coordinate indices (i,j,k). It is a measure of the gridblock spacing in the y-direction."
magnitude of heat flux in sea water due to advection	"""magnitude_of_X"" means magnitude of a vector X. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
magnitude of sea ice displacement	"""magnitude_of_X"" means magnitude of a vector X.   'Displacement' means the change in geospatial position of an object that has moved over time. If possible, the time interval over which the motion took place should be specified using a bounds variable for the time coordinate variable.  A displacement can be represented as a vector. Such a vector should however not be interpreted as describing a rectilinear, constant speed motion but merely as an indication that the start point of the vector is found at the tip of the vector after the time interval associated with the displacement variable.  A displacement does not prescribe a trajectory. Sea ice displacement can be defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component."
magnitude of surface downward stress	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""magnitude_of_X"" means magnitude of a vector X. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward)."
mass concentration of acetic acid in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid.
mass concentration of aceto nitrile in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for aceto-nitrile is CH3CN. The IUPAC name for aceto-nitrile is ethanenitrile.
mass concentration of alkanes in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons, i.e. they do not contain any chemical double bonds.  Alkanes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n+2); ""alkanes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkane species, e.g., methane and ethane."
mass concentration of alkenes in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Alkenes are unsaturated hydrocarbons as they contain chemical double bonds between adjacent carbon atoms.  Alkenes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n); ""alkenes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkene species, e.g., ethene and propene."
mass concentration of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for alpha_hexachlorocyclohexane is C6H6Cl6.
mass concentration of alpha pinene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for alpha_pinene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for alpha-pinene is (1S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene.
mass concentration of ammonia in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3.
mass concentration of ammonium dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The chemical formula for ammonium is NH4."
mass concentration of anthropogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity."
mass concentration of aromatic compounds in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Aromatic compounds in organic chemistry are compounds that contain at least one benzene ring of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double covalent bonds.  The simplest aromatic compound is benzene itself.  In standard names ""aromatic_compounds"" is the term used to describe the group of aromatic chemical species that  are represented within a given model.  The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.  Standard names exist for some individual aromatic species, e.g. benzene and xylene."
mass concentration of atomic bromine in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic bromine is Br.
mass concentration of atomic chlorine in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic chlorine is Cl.
mass concentration of atomic nitrogen in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic nitrogen is N.
mass concentration of benzene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6.  Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species.
mass concentration of beta pinene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for beta_pinene is C10H16.  The IUPAC name for beta-pinene is (1S,5S)-6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptane.
mass concentration of biogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Biogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by natural processes."
mass concentration of biomass burning dry aerosol in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass concentration of bromine chloride in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine chloride is BrCl.
mass concentration of bromine monoxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine monoxide is BrO.
mass concentration of bromine nitrate in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine nitrate is BrONO2.
mass concentration of brox expressed as bromine in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Brox""  describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic bromine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen bromide (HBr) and bromine nitrate (BrONO2). ""Brox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols.  Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_bromine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass concentration of butane in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass concentration of calcareous phytoplankton expressed as chlorophyll in sea water	'Mass concentration' means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally. All contain a chlorin ring (chemical formula C20H16N4) which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. The naturally occurring forms of chlorophyll contain between 35 and 55 carbon atoms. 'Calcareous phytoplankton' are phytoplankton that produce calcite. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis.
mass concentration of carbon dioxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2.
mass concentration of carbon monoxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO.
mass concentration of carbon tetrachloride in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of carbon tetrachloride is CCl4.
mass concentration of cfc113 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC113 is CCl2FCClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC113 is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-ethane.
mass concentration of cfc113a in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC113a CCl3CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC113a is 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoro-ethane.
mass concentration of cfc114 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC114 is CClF2CClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC114 is 1,2-dichloro-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane.
mass concentration of cfc115 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC115 is CClF2CF3. The IUPAC name for CFC115 is 1-chloro-1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoro-ethane.
mass concentration of cfc11 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane.
mass concentration of cfc12 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2.  The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane.
mass concentration of chlorine dioxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine dioxide is OClO.
mass concentration of chlorine monoxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine monoxide is ClO.
mass concentration of chlorine nitrate in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine nitrate is ClONO2.
mass concentration of chlorophyll a in sea water	'Mass concentration' means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally. All contain a chlorin ring (chemical formula C20H16N4) which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. The naturally occurring forms of chlorophyll contain between 35 and 55 carbon atoms. Chlorophyll-a is the most commonly occurring form of natural chlorophyll. The chemical formula of chlorophyll-a is C55H72O5N4Mg.
mass concentration of chlorophyll in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally. All contain a chlorin ring (chemical formula C20H16N4) which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. The naturally occurring forms of chlorophyll contain between 35 and 55 carbon atoms.
mass concentration of cloud liquid water in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". Cloud droplets are spherical and typically a few micrometers to a few tens of micrometers in diameter. An upper limit of 0.2 mm diameter is sometimes used to distinguish between cloud droplets and drizzle drops, but in active cumulus clouds strong updrafts can maintain much larger cloud droplets."
mass concentration of clox expressed as chlorine in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Clox"" describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic chlorine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine nitrate (ClONO2). ""Clox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols.   Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_chlorine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass concentration of coarse mode ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. Coarse mode aerosol particles have a diameter of more than 1 micrometer."
mass concentration of condensed water in soil	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  Condensed water means liquid and ice.
mass concentration of diatoms expressed as carbon in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Diatoms are single-celled phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis.
mass concentration of diatoms expressed as chlorophyll in sea water	'Mass concentration' means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B containedin A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally. All contain a chlorin ring (chemical formula C20H16N4) which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. The naturally occurring forms of chlorophyll contain between 35 and 55 carbon atoms. Diatoms are single-celled phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis.
mass concentration of diatoms expressed as nitrogen in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Diatoms are single-celled phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis.
mass concentration of diazotrophs expressed as chlorophyll in sea water	'Mass concentration' means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally. All contain a chlorin ring (chemical formula C20H16N4) which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. The naturally occurring forms of chlorophyll contain between 35 and 55 carbon atoms.  In ocean modelling, diazotrophs are phytoplankton of the phylum cyanobacteria distinct from other phytoplankton groups in their ability to fix nitrogen gas in addition to nitrate and ammonium. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic organisms that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis.
mass concentration of dichlorine peroxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dichlorine peroxide is Cl2O2.
mass concentration of dimethyl sulfide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S.  Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referred to as DMS.
mass concentration of dinitrogen pentoxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dinitrogen pentoxide is N2O5.
mass concentration of drizzle in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Drizzle"" means drops of water falling through the atmosphere that have a diameter typically in the range 0.2-0.5 mm."
mass concentration of dust dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass concentration of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
mass concentration of ethane in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass concentration of ethanol in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethanol is C2H5OH.
mass concentration of ethene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass concentration of ethyne in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H.  Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene.
mass concentration of flagellates expressed as carbon in sea water	'Mass concentration' means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. 'Flagellates' are a class of single celled organisms that use a flagellum (whip-like structure) for feeding and locomotion. Some flagellates can photosynthesize and others feed on bacteria, with a few flagellatescapable of both.
mass concentration of flagellates expressed as nitrogen in sea water	'Mass concentration' means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. 'Flagellates' are a class of single celled organisms that use a flagellum (whip-like structure) for feeding and locomotion. Some flagellates can photosynthesize and others feed on bacteria, with a few flagellatescapable of both.
mass concentration of formaldehyde in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal.
mass concentration of formic acid in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid.
mass concentration of gaseous divalent mercury in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule."
mass concentration of gaseous elemental mercury in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for mercury is Hg.
mass concentration of halon1202 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1202 is CBr2F2. The IUPAC name for halon1202 is dibromo-difluoro-methane.
mass concentration of halon1211 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1211 is CBrClF2. The IUPAC name for halon1211 is bromo-chloro-difluoro-methane.
mass concentration of halon1301 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1301 is CBrF3. The IUPAC name for halon1301 is bromo-trifluoro-methane.
mass concentration of halon2402 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halo2402 is C2Br2F4. The IUPAC name for halon2402 is 1,2-dibromo-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane.
mass concentration of hcc140a in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hcc140a is CH3CCl3. The IUPAC name for hcc140a is 1,1,1-trichloro-ethane.
mass concentration of hcfc141b in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC141b is CH3CCl2F. The IUPAC name for HCFC141b is 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane.
mass concentration of hcfc142b in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC142b is CH3CClF2. The IUPAC name for HCFC142b is 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane.
mass concentration of hcfc22 in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC22 is chloro-difluoro-methane.
mass concentration of hexachlorobiphenyl in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hexachlorobiphenyl is C12H4Cl6.  This structure of this species consists of two linked benzene rings, each of which is additionally bonded to three chlorine atoms.
mass concentration of hox expressed as hydrogen in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""HOx"" means a combination of two radical species containing hydrogen and oxygen: OH and HO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass concentration of hydrogen bromide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen bromide is HBr.
mass concentration of hydrogen chloride in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen chloride is HCl.
mass concentration of hydrogen cyanide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen cyanide is HCN.
mass concentration of hydrogen peroxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide is H2O2.
mass concentration of hydroperoxyl radical in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for the hydroperoxyl radical is HO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mass concentration of hydroxyl radical in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for the hydroxyl radical is OH. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mass concentration of hypobromous acid in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hypobromous acid is HOBr.
mass concentration of hypochlorous acid in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hypochlorous acid is HOCl.
mass concentration of inorganic bromine in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic bromine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""brox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species except HBr and BrONO2."
mass concentration of inorganic chlorine in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic chlorine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""clox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species except HCl and ClONO2."
mass concentration of inorganic nitrogen in sea water	'Mass concentration' means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. 'Inorganic nitrogen' describes a family of chemical species which, in an ocean model, usually includes nitrite, nitrate and ammonium which act as nitrogen nutrients. 'Inorganic nitrogen' is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.
mass concentration of isoprene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass concentration of limonene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for limonene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for limonene is 1-methyl-4-prop-1-en-2-yl-cyclohexene. Limonene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass concentration of liquid water in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The mass concentration of liquid water takes into account all cloud droplets and liquid precipitation regardless of drop size or fall speed."
mass concentration of mercury dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass concentration of methane in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass concentration of methanol in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methanol is CH3OH.
mass concentration of methyl bromide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl bromide is CH3Br. The IUPAC name for methyl bromide is bromomethane.
mass concentration of methyl chloride in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl chloride is CH3Cl. The IUPAC name for methyl chloride is chloromethane.
mass concentration of methyl hydroperoxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl hydroperoxide is CH3OOH.
mass concentration of methyl peroxy radical in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl_peroxy_radical is CH3O2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mass concentration of miscellaneous phytoplankton expressed as chlorophyll in sea water	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally. All contain a chlorin ring (chemical formula C20H16N4) which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. The naturally occurring forms of chlorophyll contain between 35 and 55 carbon atoms. 'Miscellaneous phytoplankton' are all those phytoplankton that are not diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton or other seperately named components of the phytoplankton population. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mass concentration of molecular hydrogen in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2.
mass concentration of nitrate dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
mass concentration of nitrate radical in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mass concentration of nitric acid in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3.
mass concentration of nitric acid trihydrate ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3. Nitric acid trihydrate, sometimes referred to as NAT, is a stable crystalline substance consisting of three molecules of water to one molecule of nitric acid."
mass concentration of nitrogen dioxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2.
mass concentration of nitrogen monoxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO.
mass concentration of nitrous acid in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2.
mass concentration of nitrous oxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrous oxide is N2O.
mass concentration of nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mass concentration of nox expressed as nitrogen in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass concentration of noy expressed as nitrogen in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2) , chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass concentration of organic detritus expressed as carbon in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Organic detritus are particles of debris from decaying plants and animals.
mass concentration of organic detritus expressed as nitrogen in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Organic detritus are particles of debris from decaying plants and animals.
mass concentration of oxygen in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mass concentration of oxygenated hydrocarbons in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.  ""Oxygenated"" means containing oxygen. ""Hydrocarbon"" means a compound containing hydrogen and carbon."
mass concentration of ozone in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ozone is O3.
mass concentration of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass concentration of peroxy radicals in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The term ""peroxy_radicals"" means all organic and inorganic peroxy radicals. This includes HO2 and all organic peroxy radicals, sometimes referred to as RO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
mass concentration of peroxyacetyl nitrate in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, is CH3COO2NO2.  The IUPAC name for peroxyacetyl_nitrate is nitroethaneperoxoate.
mass concentration of peroxynitric acid in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for peroxynitric acid, sometimes referred to as PNA, is HO2NO2.
mass concentration of petroleum hydrocarbons in sea water	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". Petroleum hydrocarbons are compounds containing just carbon and hydrogen originating from the fossil fuel crude oil."
mass concentration of phosphate in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.
mass concentration of phytoplankton expressed as chlorophyll in sea water	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. Standard names also exist for the mass concentration of a number of components that make up the total phytoplankton population, such as diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton and miscellaneous phytoplankton. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally. All contain a chlorin ring (chemical formula C20H16N4) which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. The naturally occurring forms of chlorophyll contain between 35 and 55 carbon atoms. "
mass concentration of picophytoplankton expressed as chlorophyll in sea water	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally. All contain a chlorin ring (chemical formula C20H16N4) which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. The naturally occurring forms of chlorophyll contain between 35 and 55 carbon atoms. Picophytoplankton are phytoplankton of less than 2 micrometers in size. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mass concentration of pm10 ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the particle size applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with the standard names of, respectively, ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature."""
mass concentration of pm10 sea salt dry aerosol particles expressed as cations in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The phrase ""sea_salt_cation"" is the term used in standard names to describe collectively the group of cationic species that occur in sea salt. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Sea salt cations are mainly sodium (Na+), but also include potassium (K+), magnesium (Mg2+), calcium (Ca2+) and rarer cations. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the ions represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mass concentration of pm10 sea salt dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers."
mass concentration of pm1 ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm1 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 1 micrometer. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the particle size applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with the standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
mass concentration of pm2p5 ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the particle size applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with the standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature."""
mass concentration of pm2p5 sea salt dry aerosol particles expressed as cations in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The phrase ""sea_salt_cation"" is the term used in standard names to describe collectively the group of cationic species that occur in sea salt. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Sea salt cations are mainly sodium (Na+), but also include potassium (K+), magnesium (Mg2+), calcium (Ca2+) and rarer cations. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the ions represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mass concentration of pm2p5 sea salt dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers."
mass concentration of primary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Primary particulate organic matter "" means all organic matter emitted directly to the atmosphere as particles except elemental carbon. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass concentration of propane in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass concentration of propene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass concentration of radon in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for radon is Rn.
mass concentration of rain in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Rain"" means drops of water falling through the atmosphere that have a diameter greater than 0.5 mm."
mass concentration of sea salt dry aerosol particles expressed as cations in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction ""mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The phrase ""sea_salt_cation"" is the term used in standard names to describe collectively the group of cationic species that occur in sea salt. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Sea salt cations are mainly sodium (Na+), but also include potassium (K+), magnesium (Mg2+), calcium (Ca2+) and rarer cations. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the ions represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mass concentration of sea salt dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass concentration of secondary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Secondary particulate organic matter"" means particulate organic matter formed within the atmosphere from gaseous precursors. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass concentration of silicate in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.
mass concentration of sulfate ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
mass concentration of sulfate dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
mass concentration of sulfur dioxide in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2.
mass concentration of suspended matter in sea water	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.
mass concentration of terpenes in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Terpenes are hydrocarbons, that is, they contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions (C5H8)n where n is an integer greater than on equal to one. The term ""terpenes"" is used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.  Standard names exist for some individual terpene species, e.g., isoprene and limonene."
mass concentration of toluene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3.  Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group.  The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene.
mass concentration of water in ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles."
mass concentration of water vapor in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.
mass concentration of xylene in air	Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species.
mass content of cloud condensed water in atmosphere layer	"""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
mass content of cloud ice in atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
mass content of cloud liquid water in atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
mass content of water in atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""Water"" means water in all phases."
mass content of water in soil	"""Water"" means water in all phases. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The mass content of water in soil refers to the vertical integral from the surface down to the bottom of the soil model. For the content between specified levels in the soil, standard names including ""content_of_soil_layer"" are used."
mass content of water in soil layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be ""model_level_number"", but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Quantities defined for a soil layer must have a vertical coordinate variable with boundaries indicating the extent of the layer(s)."
mass content of water vapor in atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
mass fraction of acetic acid in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid.
mass fraction of aceto nitrile in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for aceto-nitrile is CH3CN. The IUPAC name for aceto-nitrile is ethanenitrile.
mass fraction of alkanes in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons, i.e. they do not contain any chemical double bonds.  Alkanes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n+2); ""alkanes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkane species, e.g., methane and ethane."
mass fraction of alkenes in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Alkenes are unsaturated hydrocarbons as they contain chemical double bonds between adjacent carbon atoms.  Alkenes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n); ""alkenes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkene species, e.g., ethene and propene."
mass fraction of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for alpha_hexachlorocyclohexane is C6H6Cl6.
mass fraction of alpha pinene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for alpha_pinene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for alpha-pinene is (1S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene.
mass fraction of ammonia in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3.
mass fraction of ammonium dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  ""Mass_fraction_of_ammonium"" means that the mass is expressed as mass of NH4. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass fraction of anthropogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity."
mass fraction of aromatic compounds in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Aromatic compounds in organic chemistry are compounds that contain at least one benzene ring of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double covalent bonds.  The simplest aromatic compound is benzene itself.  In standard names ""aromatic_compounds"" is the term used to describe the group of aromatic chemical species that  are represented within a given model.  The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.  Standard names exist for some individual aromatic species, e.g. benzene and xylene."
mass fraction of atomic bromine in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic bromine is Br.
mass fraction of atomic chlorine in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic chlorine is Cl.
mass fraction of atomic nitrogen in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic nitrogen is N.
mass fraction of benzene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6.  Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species.
mass fraction of beta pinene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for beta_pinene is C10H16.  The IUPAC name for beta-pinene is (1S,5S)-6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptane.
mass fraction of biogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Biogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by natural processes."
mass fraction of bromine chloride in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine chloride is BrCl.
mass fraction of bromine monoxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine monoxide is BrO.
mass fraction of bromine nitrate in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine nitrate is BrONO2.
mass fraction of brox expressed as bromine in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Brox""  describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic bromine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen bromide (HBr) and bromine nitrate (BrONO2). ""Brox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompaniedby a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols.  Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_bromine"" are usedfor quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass fraction of butane in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass fraction of carbon dioxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2.
mass fraction of carbon monoxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO.
mass fraction of carbon tetrachloride in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of carbon tetrachloride is CCl4.
mass fraction of cfc113 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC113 is CCl2FCClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC113 is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-ethane.
mass fraction of cfc113a in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC113a CCl3CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC113a is 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoro-ethane.
mass fraction of cfc114 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC114 is CClF2CClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC114 is 1,2-dichloro-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane.
mass fraction of cfc115 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC115 is CClF2CF3. The IUPAC name for CFC115 is 1-chloro-1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoro-ethane.
mass fraction of cfc11 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane.
mass fraction of cfc12 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2.  The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane.
mass fraction of chlorine dioxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine dioxide is OClO.
mass fraction of chlorine monoxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine monoxide is ClO.
mass fraction of chlorine nitrate in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine nitrate is ClONO2.
mass fraction of chlorophyll a in sea water	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Chlorophylls are the green pigments found in most plants, algae and cyanobacteria; their presence is essential for photosynthesis to take place. There are several different forms of chlorophyll that occur naturally; all contain a chlorin ring which gives the green pigment and a side chain whose structure varies. Chlorophyll-a is the most commonly occurring form of natural chlorophyll.
mass fraction of cloud condensed water in air	"""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
mass fraction of cloud ice in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of cloud liquid water in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of clox expressed as chlorine in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Clox"" describes a familyof chemical species consisting of inorganic chlorine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine nitrate (ClONO2). ""Clox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols.   Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_chlorine"" are used for quantitiesthat contain all inorganic chlorine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A.It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass fraction of convective cloud condensed water in air	"""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
mass fraction of convective cloud ice in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
mass fraction of convective cloud liquid water in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
mass fraction of dichlorine peroxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dichlorineperoxide is Cl2O2.
mass fraction of dimethyl sulfide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of dinitrogen pentoxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dinitrogenpentoxide is N2O5.
mass fraction of dust dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass fraction of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
mass fraction of ethane in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standardnames for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass fraction of ethanol in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethanol isC2H5OH.
mass fraction of ethene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standardnames for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass fraction of ethyne in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H.  Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene.
mass fraction of formaldehyde in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal.
mass fraction of formic acid in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid.
mass fraction of frozen water in soil moisture	"""frozen_water"" means ice. ""moisture"" means water in all phases contained in soil. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
mass fraction of gaseous divalent mercury in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule."
mass fraction of gaseous elemental mercury in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for mercury is Hg.
mass fraction of graupel in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of halon1202 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1202 is CBr2F2. The IUPAC name for halon1202 is dibromo-difluoro-methane.
mass fraction of halon1211 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1211 is CBrClF2. The IUPAC name for halon1211 is bromo-chloro-difluoro-methane.
mass fraction of halon1301 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1301 is CBrF3. The IUPAC name for halon1301 is bromo-trifluoro-methane.
mass fraction of halon2402 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halo2402 is C2Br2F4. The IUPAC name for halon2402 is 1,2-dibromo-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane.
mass fraction of hcc140a in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hcc140a isCH3CCl3. The IUPAC name for hcc140a is 1,1,1-trichloro-ethane.
mass fraction of hcfc141b in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC141b is CH3CCl2F. The IUPAC name for HCFC141b is 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane.
mass fraction of hcfc142b in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC142b is CH3CClF2. The IUPAC name for HCFC142b is 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane.
mass fraction of hcfc22 in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC22 is chloro-difluoro-methane.
mass fraction of hexachlorobiphenyl in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hexachlorobiphenyl is C12H4Cl6.  This structure of this species consists of two linked benzene rings,each of which is additionally bonded to three chlorine atoms.
mass fraction of hox expressed as hydrogen in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""HOx"" means a combination of two radical species containing hydrogen and oxygen: OH and HO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass fraction of hydrogen bromide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen bromide is HBr.
mass fraction of hydrogen chloride in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen chloride is HCl.
mass fraction of hydrogen cyanide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen cyanide is HCN.
mass fraction of hydrogen peroxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide is H2O2.
mass fraction of hydroperoxyl radical in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for the hydroperoxyl radical is HO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mass fraction of hydroxyl radical in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for the hydroxyl radical is OH. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived,species.
mass fraction of hypobromous acid in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hypobromous acid is HOBr.
mass fraction of hypochlorous acid in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hypochlorous acid is HOCl.
mass fraction of inorganic bromine in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic bromine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""brox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species except HBr and BrONO2."
mass fraction of inorganic chlorine in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic chlorine"" is the termused in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented withina given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""clox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species except HCl and ClONO2."
mass fraction of isoprene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass fraction of limonene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for limonene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for limonene is 1-methyl-4-prop-1-en-2-yl-cyclohexene. Limonene is a  member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for theterpene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass fraction of mercury dry aerosol in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass fraction of methane in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methane isCH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass fraction of methanesulfonic acid dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The chemical formula for methanesulfonic acid is CH3SO3H."
mass fraction of methanol in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethanol isC2H5OH. The chemical formula for methanol is CH3OH.
mass fraction of methyl bromide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl bromide is CH3Br. The IUPAC name for methyl bromide is bromomethane.
mass fraction of methyl chloride in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl chloride is CH3Cl. The IUPAC name for methyl chloride is chloromethane.
mass fraction of methyl hydroperoxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl hydroperoxide is CH3OOH.
mass fraction of methyl peroxy radical in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl_peroxy_radical is CH3O2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mass fraction of molecular hydrogen in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2.
mass fraction of nitrate dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Mass_fraction_of_nitrate"" means that the mass is expressed as mass of NO3. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass fraction of nitrate radical in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mass fraction of nitric acid in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3.
mass fraction of nitric acid trihydrate ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3. Nitric acid trihydrate, sometimes referred to as NAT, is a stable crystalline substance consisting of three molecules of water to one molecule of nitric acid."
mass fraction of nitrogen dioxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2.
mass fraction of nitrogen monoxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO.
mass fraction of nitrous acid in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2.
mass fraction of nitrous oxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrous oxide is N2O.
mass fraction of nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mass fraction of nox expressed as nitrogen in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The term ""peroxy_radicals"" means all organic and inorganic peroxy radicals. This includes HO2 and all organic peroxyradicals, sometimes referred to as RO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
mass fraction of noy expressed as nitrogen in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2) , chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mass fraction of oxygenated hydrocarbons in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.  ""Oxygenated"" means containing oxygen. ""Hydrocarbon"" means a compound containing hydrogen and carbon."
mass fraction of ozone in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon.  It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of peroxy radicals in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The term ""peroxy_radicals"" means all organic and inorganic peroxy radicals. This includes HO2 and all organic peroxyradicals, sometimes referred to as RO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
mass fraction of peroxyacetyl nitrate in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, is CH3COO2NO2.  The IUPAC name for peroxyacetyl_nitrate is nitroethaneperoxoate.
mass fraction of peroxynitric acid in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for peroxynitric acid, sometimes referred to as PNA, is HO2NO2.
mass fraction of pm10 ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the particle size applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with the standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature."""
mass fraction of pm10 ammonium dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The chemical formula for ammonium is NH4."
mass fraction of pm10 dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers."
mass fraction of pm10 dust dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers."
mass fraction of pm10 elemental carbon dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
mass fraction of pm10 nitrate dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
mass fraction of pm10 particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of pm10 particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of pm10 primary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. ""Primary particulate organic matter"" means all organic matter emitted directly to the atmosphere as particles except elemental carbon. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of pm10 sea salt dry aerosol particles expressed as cations in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The phrase ""sea_salt_cation"" is the term used in standard names to describe collectively the group of cationic species that occur in sea salt. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Sea salt cations are mainly sodium (Na+), but also include potassium (K+), magnesium (Mg2+), calcium (Ca2+) and rarer cations. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the ions represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mass fraction of pm10 sea salt dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers."
mass fraction of pm10 sulfate dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
mass fraction of pm1 ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm1 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 1 micrometer. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the particle size applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with the standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
mass fraction of pm1 dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm1 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 1 micrometer."
mass fraction of pm2p5 ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the particle size applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with the standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
mass fraction of pm2p5 ammonium dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The chemical formula for ammonium is NH4."
mass fraction of pm2p5 dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers."
mass fraction of pm2p5 dust dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers."
mass fraction of pm2p5 elemental carbon dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
mass fraction of pm2p5 nitrate dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
mass fraction of pm2p5 particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of pm2p5 particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of pm2p5 primary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. ""Primary particulate organic matter"" means all organic matter emitted directly to the atmosphere as particles except elemental carbon. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of pm2p5 sea salt dry aerosol particles expressed as cations in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The phrase ""sea_salt_cation"" is the term used in standard names to describe collectively the group of cationic species that occur in sea salt. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Sea salt cations are mainly sodium (Na+), but also include potassium (K+), magnesium (Mg2+), calcium (Ca2+) and rarer cations. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the ions represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mass fraction of pm2p5 sea salt dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers."
mass fraction of pm2p5 sulfate dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
mass fraction of precipitation in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of primary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Primary particulate organic matter "" means all organic matter emitted directly to the atmosphere as particles except elemental carbon. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of propane in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for propane isC3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass fraction of propene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for propene isC3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mass fraction of radon in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for radon is Rn.
mass fraction of rain in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of sea salt dry aerosol particles expressed as cations in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The phrase ""sea_salt_cation"" is the term used in standard names to describe collectively the group of cationic species that occur in sea salt. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Sea salt cations are mainly sodium (Na+), but also include potassium (K+), magnesium (Mg2+), calcium (Ca2+) and rarer cations. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the ions represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mass fraction of sea salt dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass fraction of secondary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Secondary particulate organic matter"" means particulate organic matter formed within the atmosphere from gaseous precursors. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
mass fraction of snow in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).
mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).
mass fraction of sulfate dry aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  ""Mass_fraction_of_sulfate"" means that the mass is expressed as mass of SO4. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake."
mass fraction of sulfur dioxide in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).
mass fraction of sulfuric acid in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.
mass fraction of terpenes in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Terpenes are hydrocarbons, that is,they contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions (C5H8)n where n is an integer greater than on equal to one. The term ""terpenes"" is used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.  Standard names exist for some individual terpene species, e.g., isoprene and limonene."
mass fraction of toluene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for toluene isC6H5CH3.  Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atomsis replaced by a methyl group.  The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene.
mass fraction of unfrozen water in soil moisture	"""moisture"" means water in all phases contained in soil. ""unfrozen_water"" means liquid and vapour. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
mass fraction of water in air	"""Water"" means water in all phases. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
mass fraction of water in ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles."
mass fraction of water in pm10 ambient aerosol particles in air	"""Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
mass fraction of water in pm2p5 ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mass fraction is used in the construction ""mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X). A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
mass fraction of xylene in air	Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer toaromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species.
medium soil pool carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""soil content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface down to the bottom of the soil model. For the content between specified levels in the soil, standard names including content_of_soil_layer are used.  ""Soil carbon"" is the organic matter present in soil quantified by the mass of carbon it contains. Soil carbon is returned to the atmosphere as the organic matter decays. The decay process takes varying amounts of time depending on the composition of the organic matter, the temperature and the availability of moisture. A carbon ""soil pool"" means the carbon contained in organic matter which has a characteristic period over which it decays and releases carbon into the atmosphere. ""Medium soil pool"" refers to the decay of organic matter in soil with a characteristic period of between ten and one hundred years under reference climate conditions of a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius and no water limitations."
medium type cloud area fraction	"Middle type clouds are: Altostratus, Altocumulus, Nimbostratus. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". X_type_cloud_area_fraction is generally determined on the basis of cloud type, though Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) models often calculate them based on the vertical location of the cloud."
minimum depth of aragonite undersaturation in sea water	"Depth is the vertical distance below the surface.   'Undersaturation' means that a solution is unsaturated with respect to a solute. Aragonite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of aragonite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for calcite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate. The ""minimum depth of undersaturation"", sometimes called the ""saturation horizon"", is the shallowest depth at which a body of water is an undersaturated solution of a named solute."
minimum depth of calcite undersaturation in sea water	"Depth is the vertical distance below the surface.   'Undersaturation' means that a solution is unsaturated with respect to a solute. Calcite is a mineral that is a  polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate. The ""minimum depth of undersaturation"", sometimes called the ""saturation horizon"", is the shallowest depth at which a body of water is an undersaturated solution of a named solute."
minus one times surface upwelling longwave flux in air	"""Minus one times"" means that the quantity described takes the opposite sign convention  to that for the quantity which has the same standard name apart from this phrase, i.e. the two quantities differ from one another by a factor of -1. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
minus one times surface upwelling shortwave flux in air	"""Minus one times"" means that the quantity described takes the opposite sign convention  to that for the quantity which has the same standard name apart from this phrase, i.e. the two quantities differ from one another by a factor of -1. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
minus one times toa outgoing shortwave flux	"""Minus one times"" means that the quantity described takes the opposite sign convention  to that for the quantity which has the same standard name apart from this phrase, i.e. the two quantities differ from one another by a factor of -1.  Shortwave means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing shortwave flux is the reflected and scattered solar radiative flux i.e. the ""upwelling"" TOA shortwave flux, sometimes called the ""outgoing shortwave radiation"" or ""OSR"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
minus one times water flux into sea water from rivers	"The quantity minus_one_times_water_flux_into_sea_water_from_rivers is the quantity with standard name water_flux_into_sea_water_from_rivers multiplied by -1. ""Water"" means water in all phases. The water flux or volume transport into sea water from rivers is the inflow to the ocean, often applied to the surface in ocean models. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
miscellaneous living matter carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Miscellaneous living matter"" means all those parts of living vegetation that are not leaf, wood, root or other separately named components."
model level number	Model level number should be understood as equivalent to layer number.
model level number at base of ocean mixed layer defined by sigma theta	"The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed. The base of the mixed layer defined by temperature, sigma, sigma_theta or vertical diffusivity is the level at which the quantity indicated differs from its surface value by a certain amount. The amount by which the quantity differs can be specified by a scalar coordinate variable. The quantity model_level_number_at_base_of_ocean_mixed_layer_defined_by_sigma_theta is sometimes referred to as the ""bowl index""."
model level number at convective cloud base	cloud_base refers to the base of the lowest cloud. Model level number should be understood as equivalent to layer number. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
model level number at convective cloud top	cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud. Model level number should be understood as equivalent to layer number. Convective cloud is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model.
model level number at sea floor	The quantity with standard name model_level_number_at_sea_floor is the depth of the ocean expressed in model levels. This could be a non-integer value because some ocean models use partial cells close to the sea floor.  For example, if this field were 23.4 at some location, it would mean the water column at that point comprised 23 full model levels plus 40% occupancy of the lowest (24th) gridcell.
model level number at top of atmosphere boundary layer	Model level number should be understood as equivalent to layer number.
moisture content of soil layer at field capacity	"""moisture"" means water in all phases contained in soil. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Quantities defined for a soil layer must have a vertical coordinate variable with boundaries indicating the extent of the layer(s). The field capacity of soil is the maximum content of water it can retain against gravitational drainage."
mole concentration of acetic acid in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid."
mole concentration of aceto nitrile in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for aceto-nitrile is CH3CN. The IUPAC name for aceto-nitrile is ethanenitrile."
mole concentration of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for alpha_hexachlorocyclohexane is C6H6Cl6."
mole concentration of alpha pinene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for alpha_pinene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for alpha-pinene is (1S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene."
mole concentration of ammonia in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3."
mole concentration of ammonium in sea water	Mole concentration means moles (amount of substance) per unit volume and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole concentration of anthropogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituentsof A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced,caused, or created by human activity."
mole concentration of aragonite expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Aragonite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of aragonite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for calcite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
mole concentration of aragonite expressed as carbon in sea water at saturation	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Mole concentration at saturation means the mole concentration in a saturated solution.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Aragonite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of aragonite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for calcite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
mole concentration of atomic bromine in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic bromine is Br."
mole concentration of atomic chlorine in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic chlorine is Cl."
mole concentration of atomic nitrogen in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for atomic nitrogen is N."
mole concentration of bacteria expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of benzene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6.  Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
mole concentration of beta pinene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for beta_pinene is C10H16.  The IUPAC name for beta-pinene is (1S,5S)-6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptane."
mole concentration of biogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Biogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by natural processes."
mole concentration of bromine chloride in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine chloride is BrCl."
mole concentration of bromine monoxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine monoxide is BrO."
mole concentration of bromine nitrate in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for bromine nitrate is BrONO2."
mole concentration of brox expressed as bromine in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Brox"" describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic bromine compounds with theexception of  hydrogen bromide (HBr) and bromine nitrate (BrONO2). ""Brox"" is theterm used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols.  Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_bromine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species including HCland ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard nameis calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of butane in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
mole concentration of calcareous phytoplankton expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. 'Calcareous phytoplankton' are phytoplankton that produce calcite. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorphof calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also existfor aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
mole concentration of calcite expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
mole concentration of calcite expressed as carbon in sea water at saturation	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Mole concentration at saturation means the mole concentration in a saturated solution.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
mole concentration of carbon dioxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
mole concentration of carbon monoxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO."
mole concentration of carbon tetrachloride in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of carbon tetrachloride is CCl4."
mole concentration of carbonate abiotic analogue expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". In ocean biogeochemistry models, an ""abiotic analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable when biological effects on ocean carbon concentration and alkalinity are ignored. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula of the carbonate anion is CO3 with an electrical charge of minus two."
mole concentration of carbonate expressed as carbon at equilibrium with pure aragonite in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula of the carbonate anion is CO3 with an electrical charge of minus two. Aragonite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of aragonite is CaCO3. At a given salinity, the thermodynamic equilibrium is that between dissolved carbonate ion and solid aragonite. Standard names also exist for calcite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
mole concentration of carbonate expressed as carbon at equilibrium with pure calcite in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula of the carbonate anion is CO3 with an electrical charge of minus two. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. At a given salinity, the thermodynamic equilibrium is that between dissolved carbonate ion and solid calcite. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
mole concentration of carbonate expressed as carbon in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula of the carbonate anion is CO3 with a charge of minus two."
mole concentration of carbonate natural analogue expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". In ocean biogeochemistry models, a ""natural analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable of imposing preindustrial atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, even when the model as a whole may be subjected to varying forcings. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula of the carbonate anion is CO3 with an electrical charge of minus two."
mole concentration of cfc113 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC113 is CCl2FCClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC113 is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
mole concentration of cfc113a in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC113a CCl3CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC113a is 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
mole concentration of cfc114 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC114 is CClF2CClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC114 is 1,2-dichloro-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
mole concentration of cfc115 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC115 is CClF2CF3. The IUPAC name for CFC115 is 1-chloro-1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoro-ethane."
mole concentration of cfc11 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane."
mole concentration of cfc11 in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane."
mole concentration of cfc12 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2.  The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane."
mole concentration of cfc12 in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2. The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane."
mole concentration of chlorine dioxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine dioxide is OClO."
mole concentration of chlorine monoxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine monoxide is ClO."
mole concentration of chlorine nitrate in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for chlorine nitrate is ClONO2."
mole concentration of clox expressed as chlorine in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Clox""describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic chlorine compounds with theexception of  hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine nitrate (ClONO2). ""Clox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are representedwithin a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, byusing a comment attribute. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasaltand other aerosols.   Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_chlorine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculatedsolely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents ofA."
mole concentration of diatoms expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Diatoms are single-celled phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica.Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mole concentration of diatoms expressed as nitrogen in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated in terms of B alone, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of diazotrophs expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. In ocean modelling, diazotrophs are phytoplankton of the phylum cyanobacteria distinct from other phytoplankton groups in their ability to fix nitrogen gas in addition to nitrate and ammonium. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic organisms that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mole concentration of dichlorine peroxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dichlorine peroxide is Cl2O2."
mole concentration of dimethyl sulfide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S.  Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referred to as DMS."
mole concentration of dimethyl sulfide in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S.  Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referred to as DMS."
mole concentration of dinitrogen pentoxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for dinitrogen pentoxide is N2O5."
mole concentration of dissolved inorganic carbon13 in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Carbon13 is a stable isotope of carbon having six protons and seven neutrons."
mole concentration of dissolved inorganic carbon14 in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Carbon14 is a radioactive isotope of carbon having six protons and eight neutrons, used in radiocarbon dating."
mole concentration of dissolved inorganic carbon abiotic analogue in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". In ocean biogeochemistry models, an ""abiotic analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable when biological effects on ocean carbon concentration and alkalinity are ignored. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mole concentration of dissolved inorganic carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the speciesrepresented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mole concentration of dissolved inorganic carbon natural analogue in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". In ocean biogeochemistry models, a ""natural analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable of imposing preindustrial atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, even when the model as a whole may be subjected to varying forcings. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mole concentration of dissolved inorganic phosphorus in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Dissolved inorganic phosphorus"" means the sum of all inorganic phosphorus in solution (including phosphate, hydrogen phosphate, dihydrogen phosphate, and phosphoric acid)."
mole concentration of dissolved inorganic silicon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Dissolved inorganic silicon"" means the sum of all inorganic silicon in solution (including silicic acid and its first dissociated anion SiO(OH)3-)."
mole concentration of dissolved iron in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'."
mole concentration of dissolved molecular oxygen in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'."
mole concentration of dissolved molecular oxygen in sea water at saturation	"""Mole concentration at saturation"" means the mole concentration in a saturated solution. Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen""."
mole concentration of dissolved molecular oxygen in sea water at shallowest local minimum in vertical profile	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The concentration of any chemical species, whether particulate or dissolved, may vary with depth in the ocean.  A depth profile may go through one or more local minima in concentration. The mole_concentration_of_molecular_oxygen_in_sea_water_at_shallowest_local_minimum_in_vertical_profile is the mole concentration of oxygen at the local minimum in the concentration profile that occurs closest to the sea surface."
mole concentration of dissolved organic carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where Xis a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Organic carbon describes a family of chemical species and is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a completedescription of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mole concentration of ethane in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
mole concentration of ethanol in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethanol is C2H5OH."
mole concentration of ethene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
mole concentration of ethyne in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H.  Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonlyknown as acetylene."
mole concentration of formaldehyde in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal."
mole concentration of formic acid in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid."
mole concentration of gaseous divalent mercury in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s)in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule."
mole concentration of gaseous elemental mercury in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for mercury is Hg."
mole concentration of halon1202 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1202 is CBr2F2. The IUPAC name for halon1202 is dibromo-difluoro-methane."
mole concentration of halon1211 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1211 is CBrClF2. The IUPAC name for halon1211 is bromo-chloro-difluoro-methane."
mole concentration of halon1301 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halon1301 is CBrF3. The IUPAC name for halon1301 is bromo-trifluoro-methane."
mole concentration of halon2402 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for halo2402 is C2Br2F4. The IUPAC name for halon2402 is 1,2-dibromo-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
mole concentration of hcc140a in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hcc140a is CH3CCl3. The IUPAC name for hcc140a is 1,1,1-trichloro-ethane."
mole concentration of hcfc141b in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC141b is CH3CCl2F. The IUPAC name for HCFC141b is 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane."
mole concentration of hcfc142b in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC142b is CH3CClF2. The IUPAC name for HCFC142b is 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane."
mole concentration of hcfc22 in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC22 is chloro-difluoro-methane."
mole concentration of hexachlorobiphenyl in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hexachlorobiphenyl is C12H4Cl6.  This structure of this species consists of two linked benzene rings, each of which is additionally bonded to three chlorine atoms."
mole concentration of hox expressed as hydrogen in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""HOx"" means a combination of two radical species containing hydrogen and oxygen: OH and HO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of hydrogen bromide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen bromide is HBr."
mole concentration of hydrogen chloride in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen chloride is HCl."
mole concentration of hydrogen cyanide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen cyanide is HCN."
mole concentration of hydrogen peroxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide is H2O2."
mole concentration of hydroperoxyl radical in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for the hydroperoxyl radical is HO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
mole concentration of hydroxyl radical in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for the hydroxyl radical is OH. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
mole concentration of hypobromous acid in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hypobromous acid is HOBr."
mole concentration of hypochlorous acid in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for hypochlorous acid is HOCl."
mole concentration of inorganic bromine in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic bromine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""brox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species except HBr and BrONO2."
mole concentration of inorganic chlorine in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic chlorine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that arerepresented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""clox""are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species except HCl and ClONO2."
mole concentration of isoprene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
mole concentration of limonene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl hydroperoxide is CH3OOH."
mole concentration of mesozooplankton expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where Xis a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Mesozooplankton are zooplankton ranging between 20 micrometers and 200 micrometers in size."
mole concentration of mesozooplankton expressed as nitrogen in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated in terms of B alone, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of methane in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
mole concentration of methanol in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methanol is CH3OH."
mole concentration of methyl bromide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl bromide is CH3Br. The IUPAC name for methyl bromide is bromomethane."
mole concentration of methyl chloride in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl chloride is CH3Cl. The IUPAC name for methyl chloride is chloromethane."
mole concentration of methyl hydroperoxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl hydroperoxide is CH3OOH."
mole concentration of methyl peroxy radical in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for methyl_peroxy_radical is CH3O2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
mole concentration of microzooplankton expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where Xis a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Microzooplankton are zooplankton of less than 20 micrometers in size."
mole concentration of microzooplankton expressed as nitrogen in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated in terms of B alone, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of miscellaneous phytoplankton expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. 'Miscellaneous phytoplankton' are all those phytoplankton that are not diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton or other seperately named components of the phytoplankton population. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mole concentration of miscellaneous zooplankton expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where Xis a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. 'Miscellaneous zooplankton' are all those zooplankton that are not mesozooplankton, microzooplankton or other seperately named components of the zooplankton population."
mole concentration of molecular hydrogen in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2."
mole concentration of nitrate and nitrite in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-. The chemical formula for the nitrite anion is NO2-."
mole concentration of nitrate in sea water	Mole concentration means moles (amount of substance) per unit volume and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole concentration of nitrate radical in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
mole concentration of nitric acid in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3."
mole concentration of nitric acid trihydrate ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3. Nitric acid trihydrate, sometimes referred to as NAT, is a stable crystalline substance consisting of three molecules of water to one molecule of nitric acid."
mole concentration of nitrite in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for the nitrite anion is NO2-."
mole concentration of nitrogen dioxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2."
mole concentration of nitrogen monoxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO."
mole concentration of nitrous acid in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2."
mole concentration of nitrous oxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for nitrous oxide is N2O."
mole concentration of nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained inA, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mole concentration of nox expressed as nitrogen in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solelywith respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of noy expressed as nitrogen in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2) , chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name iscalculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of organic detritus expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Organic detritus are particles of debris from decaying plants and animals."
mole concentration of organic detritus expressed as nitrogen in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Organic detritus are particles of debris from decaying plants and animals."
mole concentration of organic detritus expressed as silicon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Organic detritus are particles of debris from decaying plants and animals."
mole concentration of ozone in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for ozone is O3."
mole concentration of particulate matter expressed as silicon in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as iron in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as nitrogen in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as phosphorus in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as silicon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of peroxyacetyl nitrate in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, is CH3COO2NO2.  The IUPAC namefor peroxyacetyl_nitrate is nitroethaneperoxoate."
mole concentration of peroxynitric acid in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for peroxynitric acid, sometimes referred to as PNA, is HO2NO2."
mole concentration of phosphate in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'."
mole concentration of phytoplankton expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. Standard names also exist for the mole concentration of a number of components that make up the total phytoplankton population, such as diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton and miscellaneous phytoplankton."
mole concentration of phytoplankton expressed as iron in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mole concentration of phytoplankton expressed as nitrogen in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole concentration of phytoplankton expressed as phosphorus in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mole concentration of phytoplankton expressed as silicon in sea water	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mole concentration of picophytoplankton expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Picophytoplankton are phytoplankton of less than 2 micrometers in size. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis."
mole concentration of propane in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
mole concentration of propene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
mole concentration of radon in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical symbol for radon is Rn."
mole concentration of silicate in sea water	Mole concentration means moles (amount of substance) per unit volume and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole concentration of sulfur dioxide in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2."
mole concentration of sulfur hexafluoride in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula of sulfur hexafluoride is SF6."
mole concentration of toluene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3.  Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one ofthe hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group.  The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene."
mole concentration of water vapor in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'."
mole concentration of xylene in air	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
mole concentration of zooplankton expressed as carbon in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Standard names also exist for the mole concentration of a number of components that make up the total zooplankton population, such as mesozooplankton, microzooplankton andmiscellaneous zooplankton."
mole concentration of zooplankton expressed as nitrogen in sea water	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated in terms of B alone, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Standard names also exist for the mole concentration of a number of components that make up the total zooplankton population, such as mesozooplankton, and microzooplankton."
mole content of ozone in atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""content_of_X_in_atmosphere_layer"" refers to the vertical integral between two specified levels in the atmosphere. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. For the mole content integrated from the surface to the top of the atmosphere, standard names including ""atmosphere_mole_content_of_X"" are used. The chemical formula for ozone is O3. ""mole_content_of_ozone_in_atmosphere_layer"" is usually measured in Dobson Units which are equivalent to 446.2 micromoles m-2. N.B. Data variables containing column content of ozone can be given the standard name of either equivalent_thickness_at_stp_of_atmosphere_ozone_content or atmosphere_mole_content_of_ozone. The latter name is recommended for consistency with mole content names for chemical species other than ozone."
mole fraction of acetaldehyde in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula for acetaldehyde is CH3CHO. The IUPAC name for acetaldehyde is ethanal."
mole fraction of acetic acid in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid.
mole fraction of aceto nitrile in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for aceto-nitrile is CH3CN. The IUPAC name for aceto-nitrile is ethanenitrile.
mole fraction of acetone in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". Acetone is an organic molecule with the chemical formula CH3CH3CO. The IUPAC name for acetone is propan-2-one. Acetone is a member of the group of organic compounds known as ketones. There are standard names for the ketone group as well as for some of the individual species."
mole fraction of aldehydes in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Aldehydes are organic compounds with a CHO group; ""aldehydes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for formaldehyde as the simplest member of the aldehydes group."
mole fraction of alkanes in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons, i.e. they do not contain any chemical double bonds. Alkanes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n+2); ""alkanes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkane species, e.g., methane and ethane."
mole fraction of alkenes in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". Alkenes are unsaturated hydrocarbons as they contain chemical double bonds between adjacent carbon atoms. ""Hydrocarbon"" means a compound containing hydrogen and carbon. Alkenes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n); ""alkenes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkene species, e.g., ethene and propene."
mole fraction of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of alpha pinene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for alpha_pinene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for alpha-pinene is (1S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene.
mole fraction of ammonia in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for ammonia is NH3.
mole fraction of anthropogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity."
mole fraction of artificial tracer with fixed lifetime in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Artificial tracer"" means a passive atmospheric tracer that is used to study atmospheric transport and deposition. To specify the length of the tracer lifetime in the atmosphere, a scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of tracer_lifetime should be used."
mole fraction of atomic bromine in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical symbol of atomic bromine is Br.
mole fraction of atomic chlorine in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical symbol of atomic chlorine is Cl.
mole fraction of atomic nitrogen in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical symbol of atomic nitrogen is N.
mole fraction of benzene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of beta pinene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for beta_pinene is C10H16.  The IUPAC name for beta-pinene is (1S,5S)-6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptane.
mole fraction of biogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Biogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by natural processes."
mole fraction of bromine chloride in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of bromine chloride is BrCl.
mole fraction of bromine monoxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of bromine monoxide is BrO.
mole fraction of bromine nitrate in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. The chemical formula of bromine nitrate is BrONO2.
mole fraction of brox expressed as bromine in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Brox""  describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic bromine compounds withthe exception of  hydrogen bromide (HBr) and bromine nitrate (BrONO2). ""Brox"" isthe term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols.  Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_bromine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species includingHCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole fraction of butane in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.
mole fraction of carbon dioxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of carbon monoxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of carbon tetrachloride in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of carbon tetrachloride is CCl4.
mole fraction of carbon tetrafluoride in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula for carbon tetrafluoride is CF4. The IUPAC name for carbon tetrafluoride is tetrafluoromethane."
mole fraction of carbonyl fluoride in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula of carbonyl fluoride is COF2. The IUPAC name for carbonyl fluoride is carbonyl difluoride."
mole fraction of carbonyl sulfide in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula for carbonyl sulfide is COS. The IUPAC name for carbonyl sulfide is carbon oxide sulfide."
mole fraction of cfc113 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of CFC113 is CCl2FCClF2.  The IUPAC name for CFC113 is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-ethane.
mole fraction of cfc113a in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of CFC113a CCl3CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC113a is 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoro-ethane.
mole fraction of cfc114 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of CFC114 is CClF2CClF2.  The IUPAC name for CFC114 is 1,2-dichloro-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane.
mole fraction of cfc115 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of CFC115 is CClF2CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC115 is 1-chloro-1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoro-ethane.
mole fraction of cfc11 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3.  The IUPAC name for CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane.
mole fraction of cfc12 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of CFC12 is CF2Cl2.  The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane.
mole fraction of chlorine dioxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of chlorine dioxide is OClO.
mole fraction of chlorine monoxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of chlorine monoxide is ClO.
mole fraction of chlorine nitrate in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of chlorine nitrate is ClONO2.
mole fraction of clox expressed as chlorine in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Clox"" describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic chlorine compounds withthe exception of  hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine nitrate (ClONO2). ""Clox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gasescontaining chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols.   Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_chlorine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole fraction of dichlorine in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Dichlorine is the molecular form of elemental chlorine with the chemical formula Cl2.
mole fraction of dichlorine peroxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.   The chemical formula of dichlorine peroxide is Cl2O2.
mole fraction of dimethyl sulfide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of dinitrogen pentoxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of dinitrogen pentoxide is N2O5.
mole fraction of ethane in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of ethanol in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for ethanol is C2H5OH.
mole fraction of ethene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of ethyne in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of formaldehyde in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of formic acid in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid.
mole fraction of gaseous divalent mercury in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule."
mole fraction of gaseous elemental mercury in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of glyoxal in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula for glyoxal is CHOCHO. The IUPAC name for glyoxal is ethanedial."
mole fraction of halon1202 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of  halon1202  is CBr2F2.  The IUPAC name for halon 1202 is dibromo-difluoro-methane.
mole fraction of halon1211 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of halon1211 is CBrClF2.  The IUPAC name for halon 1211 is bromo-chloro-difluoro-methane.
mole fraction of halon1301 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of halon1301 is CBrF3.  The IUPAC name for halon 1301 is bromo-trifluoro-methane.
mole fraction of halon2402 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of halon2402 is C2Br2F4.  The IUPAC name for halon 2402 is 1,2-dibromo-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane.
mole fraction of hcc140a in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for hcc140a is CH3CCl3. The IUPAC name for hcc140a is 1,1,1-trichloro-ethane.
mole fraction of hcfc141b in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for HCFC141b is CH3CCl2F. The IUPAC name for HCFC141b is 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane.
mole fraction of hcfc142b in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for HCFC142b is CH3CClF2. The IUPAC name for HCFC142b is 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane.
mole fraction of hcfc22 in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC22 is chloro-difluoro-methane.
mole fraction of hexachlorobiphenyl in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of hox expressed as hydrogen in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""HOx"" means a combination of two radical species containing hydrogen and oxygen: OH and HO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole fraction of hydrogen bromide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of hydrogen bromide is HBr.
mole fraction of hydrogen chloride in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of hydrogen chloride is HCl.
mole fraction of hydrogen cyanide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of hydrogen cyanide is HCN.
mole fraction of hydrogen peroxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of hydrogen peroxide is H202.
mole fraction of hydrogen sulfide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of hydrogen sulfide is H2S.
mole fraction of hydroperoxyl radical in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of hydroperoxyl radical is HO2.
mole fraction of hydroxyl radical in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of hypobromous acid in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of hypobromous acid is HOBr.
mole fraction of hypochlorous acid in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of hypochlorous acid is HOCl.
mole fraction of inorganic bromine in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of bromine containing source gases (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic bromine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""brox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species except HBr and BrONO2."
mole fraction of inorganic chlorine in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  ""Inorganic chlorine"",sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of chlorine-containing source gases (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as sea-salt and other aerosols.  mole_fraction_of_inorganic_chlorine is the sum of all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model."
mole fraction of isoprene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of limonene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for limonene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for limonene is 1-methyl-4-prop-1-en-2-yl-cyclohexene. Limonene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There arestandard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species.
mole fraction of methane in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of methanol in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for methanol is CH3OH.
mole fraction of methlyglyoxal in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Methylglyoxal is an organic molecule with the chemical formula CH3COCHO. It is also called pyruvaldehyde or 2-oxopropanal.
mole fraction of methyl bromide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of methyl bromide is CH3Br.
mole fraction of methyl chloride in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of methyl chloride is CH3Cl.
mole fraction of methyl hydroperoxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of methyl hydroperoxide is CH3OOH.
mole fraction of methyl peroxy radical in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for methyl_peroxy_radical is CH3O2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mole fraction of molecular hydrogen in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of molecular hydrogen is H2.
mole fraction of nitrate radical in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species.
mole fraction of nitric acid in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of nitric acid trihydrate ambient aerosol particles in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3. Nitric acid trihydrate, sometimes referred to as NAT, is a stable crystalline substance consisting of three molecules of water to one molecule of nitric acid."
mole fraction of nitrogen dioxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of nitrogen monoxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of nitrous acid in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalformula for nitrous acid is HNO2.
mole fraction of nitrous oxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.   The chemical formula of  nitrous oxide is N2O.
mole fraction of nmvoc expressed as carbon in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mole fraction of nox expressed as nitrogen in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole fraction of noy expressed as nitrogen in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2) , chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, whereB is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
mole fraction of organic nitrates in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". Organic nitrates are nitrogen-containing compounds having the general formula RONO2, where R is an alkyl (or organic) group; ""organic_nitrates"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
mole fraction of ozone in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of peroxyacetyl nitrate in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of peroxynitric acid in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of peroxynitric acid is HNO4.
mole fraction of propane in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of propene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of radon in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemicalsymbol for radon is Rn.
mole fraction of sulfur dioxide in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of sulfur hexafluoride in air	"Mole fraction is used in the construction ""mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The chemical formula of sulfur hexafluoride is SF6."
mole fraction of toluene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole fraction of water vapor in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  The chemical formula of water vapor is H2O.
mole fraction of xylene in air	Mole fraction is used in the construction mole_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.
mole ratio of nitrate to phosphate in sea water	"Mole ratio is used in the construction mole_ratio_of_X_to_Y_in_medium, where X and Y are both material constituents of the medium.  ""Medium"" can take anyof the values given in the ""Small scale medium"" section of the standard name Guidelines document. ""ratio_of_X_to_Y""  means X/Y.  The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-. The chemical formula of the phosphate anion is PO4 with a charge of minus three."
moles of cfc11 per unit mass in sea water	"moles_of_X_per_unit_mass_inY is also called ""molality"" of X in Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane."
moles of nitrate and nitrite per unit mass in sea water	"moles_of_X_per_unit_mass_inY is also called ""molality"" of X in Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
moles of nitrate per unit mass in sea water	"moles_of_X_per_unit_mass_inY is also called ""molality"" of X in Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
moles of nitrite per unit mass in sea water	"moles_of_X_per_unit_mass_inY is also called ""molality"" of X in Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
moles of oxygen per unit mass in sea water	"moles_of_X_per_unit_mass_inY is also called ""molality"" of X in Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
moles of phosphate per unit mass in sea water	"moles_of_X_per_unit_mass_inY is also called ""molality"" of X in Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
moles of silicate per unit mass in sea water	"moles_of_X_per_unit_mass_inY is also called ""molality"" of X in Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
net downward longwave flux in air	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
net downward longwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
net downward radiative flux at top of atmosphere model	"Fluxes at the top_of_atmosphere_model differ from TOA fluxes only if the model TOA fluxes make some allowance for the atmosphere above the top of the model; if not, it is usual to give standard names with toa to the fluxes at the top of the model atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
net downward shortwave flux at sea water surface	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
net downward shortwave flux in air	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
net downward shortwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
net primary mole productivity of biomass expressed as carbon by calcareous phytoplankton	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Calcareous phytoplankton"" are phytoplankton that produce calcite. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
net primary mole productivity of biomass expressed as carbon by diatoms	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. Diatoms are single-celled phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net primary mole productivity of biomass expressed as carbon by diazotrophs	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. In ocean modelling, diazotrophs are phytoplankton of the phylum cyanobacteria distinct from other phytoplankton groups in their ability to fix nitrogen gas in addition to nitrate and ammonium. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net primary mole productivity of biomass expressed as carbon by miscellaneous phytoplankton	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. ""Miscellaneous phytoplankton"" are all those phytoplankton that are not diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton or other seperately named components of the phytoplankton population. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net primary mole productivity of biomass expressed as carbon by phytoplankton	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net primary mole productivity of biomass expressed as carbon by picophytoplankton	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. Picophytoplankton are phytoplankton of less than 2 micrometers in size. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net primary mole productivity of biomass expressed as carbon due to nitrate utilization	"""Production of carbon"" refers to the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. ""Nitrate utilization"" means net primary production by phytoplankton based on nitrate alone. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net primary production of biomass expressed as carbon per unit volume in sea water	"Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. In the oceans, carbon production per unit volume is often found at a number of depths at a given horizontal location. That quantity can then be integrated to calculate production per unit area at the location. Standard names for production per unit area use the term ""productivity"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constiuents of A."
net primary productivity of biomass expressed as carbon	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net primary productivity of biomass expressed as carbon accumulated in leaves	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. "
net primary productivity of biomass expressed as carbon accumulated in roots	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net primary productivity of biomass expressed as carbon accumulated in wood	"""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. ""Productivity"" means production per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
net rate of absorption of longwave energy in atmosphere layer	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Net absorbed radiation is the difference between absorbed and emitted radiation."
net rate of absorption of shortwave energy in atmosphere layer	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Net absorbed radiation is the difference between absorbed and emitted radiation."
net rate of absorption of shortwave energy in ocean layer	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Net absorbed radiation is the difference between absorbed and emitted radiation."
net upward longwave flux in air	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
net upward longwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
net upward shortwave flux in air	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
net upward shortwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
nitrogen growth limitation of calcareous phytoplankton	"""Calcareous phytoplankton"" are phytoplankton that produce calcite. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Nitrogen growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of nitrogen) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on nitrogen availability."
nitrogen growth limitation of diatoms	"Diatoms are phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Nitrogen growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of nitrogen) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on nitrogen availability."
nitrogen growth limitation of diazotrophs	"In ocean modelling, diazotrophs are phytoplankton of the phylum cyanobacteria distinct from other phytoplankton groups in their ability to fix nitrogen gas in addition to nitrate and ammonium. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Nitrogen growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of nitrogen) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on nitrogen availability."
nitrogen growth limitation of miscellaneous phytoplankton	"Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Miscellaneous phytoplankton"" are all those phytoplankton that are not diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton or other separately named components of the phytoplankton population. ""Nitrogen growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of nitrogen) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on nitrogen availability."
nitrogen growth limitation of picophytoplankton	"Picophytoplankton are phytoplankton of less than 2 micrometers in size. Phytoplankton are algae that grow where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Nitrogen growth limitation"" means the ratio of the growth rate of a species population in the environment (where there is a finite availability of nitrogen) to the theoretical growth rate if there were no such limit on nitrogen availability."
normalized difference vegetation index	"""Normalized_difference_vegetation_index"", usually abbreviated to NDVI, is an index calculated from reflectances measured in the visible and near infrared channels.  It is calculated as NDVI = (NIR - R) / (NIR + R) where NIR is the reflectance in the near-infrared band and R is the reflectance in the red visible band.  Reflectance is the ratio of the reflected over the incoming radiation in each spectral band.  The calculated value of NDVI depends on the precise definitions of the spectral bands and these definitions may vary between different models and remote sensing instruments."
northward atmosphere dry static energy transport across unit distance	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Transport across_unit_distance means expressed per unit distance normal to the direction of transport. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
northward atmosphere heat transport	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Atmosphere heat transport"" means total heat transport by the atmosphere by all processes."
northward atmosphere water transport across unit distance	"""Water"" means water in all phases. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Transport across_unit_distance means expressed per unit distance normal to the direction of transport."
northward atmosphere water vapor transport across unit distance	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Transport across_unit_distance means expressed per unit distance normal to the direction of transport."
northward derivative of eastward sea ice velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity.  ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward).  Sea ice velocity is defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component.  ""component_derivative_of_X"" means  derivative of X with respect to distance in the component  direction, which may be northward, southward, eastward, westward, x or y. The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, in the case where they are not true longitude and latitude. The named quantity is a component of the strain rate tensor for sea ice."
northward eliassen palm flux in air	"""Eliassen Palm flux"" is a widely used vector in the meridional plane, and the divergence of this flux appears as a forcing in the Transformed Eulerian mean formulation of the zonal mean zonal wind equation.  ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward)."
northward flood water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Flood water is water that covers land which is normally not covered by water."
northward heat flux in air due to eddy advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
northward land ice velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Land ice velocity is defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves."
northward mass flux of air	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
northward momentum flux correction	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure. It is a tensor quantity. Flux correction is also called ""flux adjustment"". A positive flux correction is downward i.e. added to the ocean. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
northward northward derivative of geopotential	"A quantity with standard name Xward_Yward_derivative_of_geopotential is a second spatial derivative of geopotential, P, in the direction specified by X and Y, i.e., d2P/dXdY. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""component_derivative_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be ""northward"", ""southward"", ""eastward"", ""westward"", ""x"" or ""y"". The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, in the case where they are not true longitude and latitude."
northward ocean freshwater transport	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Ocean transport means transport by all processes, both sea water and sea ice."
northward ocean freshwater transport due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by diffusion means the part due to horizontal or isopyncal diffusion schemes in an ocean model, but not including the ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean freshwater transport due to gyre	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by the ocean gyre is geometrically defined as being the part due to the vertical integral of the product of deviations of velocity and tracer from their zonal means. The velocity does not include ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean freshwater transport due to overturning	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by (meridional) overturning is geometrically defined as being the part due to the vertical integral of the product of zonal means of velocity and tracer. The velocity does not include ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean freshwater transport due to parameterized eddy advection	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
northward ocean heat transport	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Ocean transport means transport by all processes, both sea water and sea ice."
northward ocean heat transport due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by diffusion means the part due to horizontal or isopyncal diffusion schemes in an ocean model, but not including the ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean heat transport due to gyre	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by the ocean gyre is geometrically defined as being the part due to the vertical integral of the product of deviations of velocity and tracer from their zonal means. The velocity does not include ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean heat transport due to overturning	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by (meridional) overturning is geometrically defined as being the part due to the vertical integral of the product of zonal means of velocity and tracer. The velocity does not include ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean heat transport due to parameterized eddy advection	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
northward ocean heat transport due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection."
northward ocean heat transport due to parameterized mesoscale eddy diffusion	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddy diffusive processes include diffusion along neutral directions in the interior of the ocean and horizontal diffusion in the surface boundary layer. The processes occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks."
northward ocean heat transport due to parameterized submesoscale eddy advection	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized submesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of the order of 1km horizontally. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. There are also standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection."
northward ocean salt transport	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Ocean transport means transport by all processes, both sea water and sea ice."
northward ocean salt transport due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by diffusion means the part due to horizontal or isopyncal diffusion schemes in an ocean model, but not including the ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean salt transport due to gyre	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by the ocean gyre is geometrically defined as being the part due to the vertical integral of the product of deviations of velocity and tracer from their zonal means. The velocity does not include ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean salt transport due to overturning	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Northward transport by (meridional) overturning is geometrically defined as being the part due to the vertical integral of the product of zonal means of velocity and tracer. The velocity does not include ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
northward ocean salt transport due to parameterized eddy advection	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
northward sea ice displacement	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward).  ""Displacement"" means the change in geospatial position of an object that has moved over time. If possible, the time interval over which the motion took place should be specified using a bounds variable for the time coordinate variable.  A displacement can be represented as a vector. Such a vector should however not be interpreted as describing a rectilinear, constant speed motion but merely as an indication that the start point of the vector is found at the tip of the vector after the time interval associated with the displacement variable.  A displacement does not prescribe a trajectory. Sea ice displacement can be defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component. A northward displacement is the distance calculated from the change in a moving object's latitude between the start and end of the time interval associated with the displacement variable."
northward sea ice velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Sea ice velocity is defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component."
northward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward)."
northward sea water velocity assuming no tide	"A velocity is a vector quantity.  ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward).  A phrase assuming_condition  indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all  aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition."
northward sea water velocity due to parameterized mesoscale eddies	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddies occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddies are represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme."
northward transformed eulerian mean air velocity	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward)."
northward upward derivative of geopotential	"A quantity with standard name Xward_Yward_derivative_of_geopotential is a second spatial derivative of geopotential, P, in the direction specified by X and Y, i.e., d2P/dXdY. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). ""component_derivative_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be ""northward"", ""southward"", ""eastward"", ""westward"", ""x"" or ""y"". The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, in the case where they are not true longitude and latitude."
northward water vapor flux in air	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
northward water vapor transport across unit distance in atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Transport across_unit_distance means expressed per unit distance normal to the direction of transport."
northward westward derivative of geopotential	"A quantity with standard name Xward_Yward_derivative_of_geopotential is a second spatial derivative of geopotential in the direction specified by X and Y, i.e., d2P/dXdY. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. ""Westward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed westward (negative eastward). ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""component_derivative_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be ""northward"", ""southward"", ""eastward"", ""westward"", ""x"" or ""y"". The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, in the case where they are not true longitude and latitude."
northward wind	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
northward wind shear	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) Wind shear is the derivative of wind with respect to height."
number concentration of aerosol particles at stp in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""stp"" means standard temperature (0 degC) and pressure (101325 Pa). The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
number concentration of ambient aerosol particles in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles."
number concentration of cloud condensation nuclei at stp in air	"The cloud condensation nuclei number concentration is the total number of aerosol particles per unit volume independent of and integrated over particle size that act as condensation nuclei for liquid-phase clouds. A coordinate variable with the standard name of relative_humidity should be specified to indicate that the property refers to a specific supersaturation with respect to liquid water. The ability of a particle to act as a condensation nucleus is determined by its size, chemical composition, and morphology. ""stp"" means standard temperature (0 degC) and pressure (101325 Pa)."
number concentration of cloud liquid water particles in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume."
number concentration of cloud liquid water particles in air at liquid water cloud top	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud."
number concentration of coarse mode ambient aerosol particles in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. Coarse mode aerosol particles have a diameter of more than 1 micrometer."
number concentration of ice crystals in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume."
number concentration of ice crystals in air at ice cloud top	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. cloud_top refers to the top of the highest cloud."
number concentration of nucleation mode ambient aerosol particles in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. Nucleation mode aerosol particles have a diameter of less than 3 nanometers."
number concentration of ozone molecules in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. The chemical formula for ozone is O3. The IUPAC name for ozone is trioxygen."
number concentration of pm10 aerosol particles in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the particle size applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with the standard names of, respectively, ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
number concentration of pm2p5 aerosol particles in air	"""Number concentration"" means the number of particles or other specified objects per unit volume. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the particle size applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with the standard names of, respectively, ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature""."
number of days with air temperature above threshold	"Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.  A variable whose standard name has the form number_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold is a count of the number of days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisfied.  It must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_methods entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A number_of_days is an extensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days should be ""sum""."
number of days with air temperature below threshold	"Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.  A variable whose standard name has the form number_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold is a count of the number of days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisfied.  It must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_methods entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A number_of_days is an extensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days should be ""sum""."
number of days with lwe thickness of precipitation amount above threshold	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area.  ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent.  A variable whose standard name has the form number_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold is a count of the number of days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisfied.  It must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_methods entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A number_of_days is an extensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days should be ""sum""."
number of days with surface temperature below threshold	"The surface temperature is the temperature at the interface, not the bulk temperature of the medium above or below. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A variable whose standard name has the form number_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold is a count of the number of days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisfied. It must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_methods entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A number_of_days is an extensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days should be ""sum""."
number of days with wind speed above threshold	"Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)  The wind speed is the magnitude of the wind velocity.  A variable whose standard name has the form number_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold is a count of the number of days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisfied.  It must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_methods entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A number_of_days is an extensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days should be ""sum""."
number of observations	A variable with the standard name of number_of_observations contains the number of discrete observations or measurements from which the values of  another data variable have been derived. The linkage between the data variable and the variable with a standard_name of number_of_observations is achieved using the ancillary_variables attribute.
ocean barotropic mass streamfunction	The barotropic stream function with the dimensions of volume transport has the standard name ocean_barotropic_streamfunction.
ocean heat x transport	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x."
ocean heat x transport due to diffusion	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
ocean heat x transport due to parameterized eddy advection	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean heat y transport	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y."
ocean heat y transport due to diffusion	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
ocean heat y transport due to parameterized eddy advection	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean integral wrt depth of sea water temperature	"The phrase ""integral_wrt_X_of_Y"" means int Y dX. The data variable should have an axis for X specifying the limits of the integral as bounds. ""wrt"" means with respect to. Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
ocean kinetic energy dissipation per unit area due to vertical friction	Friction, leading to the dissipation of kinetic energy, arises in ocean models as a result of the viscosity of sea water.  Generally, the  lateral (xy) viscosity is given a large value to maintain the numerical stability of the model.  In contrast, the vertical viscosity is usually much smaller. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.
ocean kinetic energy dissipation per unit area due to xy friction	Friction, leading to the dissipation of kinetic energy, arises in ocean models as a result of the viscosity of sea water.  Generally, the  lateral (xy) viscosity is given a large value to maintain the numerical stability of the model.  In contrast, the vertical viscosity is usually much smaller. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.
ocean mass content of dissolved inorganic carbon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Dissolvedinorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
ocean mass content of dissolved organic carbon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. Organic carbon describes a family of chemical species and is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
ocean mass content of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
ocean mass x transport	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x."
ocean mass x transport due to advection	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
ocean mass x transport due to advection and parameterized eddy advection	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean mass y transport	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y."
ocean mass y transport due to advection	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
ocean mass y transport due to advection and parameterized eddy advection	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean meridional overturning mass streamfunction	In contrast to the quantity with standard name ocean_meridional_overturning_streamfunction, this quantity includes all physical processes, resolved or parameterized, that impact mass/volume transport.  Thus it includes contributions from the bolus and Gent-McWilliams velocity.
ocean meridional overturning mass streamfunction due to parameterized eddy advection	The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection.
ocean meridional overturning mass streamfunction due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection.
ocean meridional overturning mass streamfunction due to parameterized submesoscale eddy advection	The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized submesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of the order of 1km horizontally. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. There are also standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection.
ocean meridional overturning streamfunction	"The ocean meridional overturning streamfunction should not include not include ""bolus"" or Gent-McWilliams velocity."
ocean mixed layer thickness	The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed. Various criteria are used to define the mixed layer; this can be specified by using a standard name of ocean_mixed_layer_defined_byX.
ocean mixed layer thickness defined by mixing scheme	The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed. The base of the mixed layer defined by the mixing scheme is a diagnostic of ocean models.
ocean mixed layer thickness defined by sigma t	The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed. The base of the mixed layer defined by temperature, sigma or sigma_theta is the level at which the quantity indicated differs from its surface value by a certain amount.
ocean mixed layer thickness defined by sigma theta	The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed. The base of the mixed layer defined by temperature, sigma or sigma_theta is the level at which the quantity indicated differs from its surface value by a certain amount.
ocean mixed layer thickness defined by temperature	The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed. The base of the mixed layer defined by temperature, sigma or sigma_theta is the level at which the quantity indicated differs from its surface value by a certain amount.
ocean mixed layer thickness defined by vertical tracer diffusivity deficit	"""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer. The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed. The base of the mixed layer defined by temperature, sigma, sigma_theta, or vertical diffusivity is the level at which the quantity indicated differs from its surface value by a certain amount. The amount by which the quantity differs can be specified by a scalar coordinate variable."
ocean mixed layer thickness defined by vertical tracer diffusivity threshold	"""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer. The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed. Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum. The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. The diffusivity threshold should be specified by associating a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the data variable and giving the coordinate variable a standard name of ocean_vertical_tracer_diffusivity."
ocean momentum xy biharmonic diffusivity	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. ""xy diffusivity"" means the lateral along_coordinate component of diffusivity due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model.  xy diffusivities are used in some ocean models to counteract the numerical instabilities inherent in certain implementations of rotated neutral diffusion. ""biharmonic diffusivity"" means diffusivity for use with a biharmonic diffusion operator."
ocean momentum xy laplacian diffusivity	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. ""xy diffusivity"" means the lateral along_coordinate component of diffusivity due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model.  xy diffusivities are used in some ocean models to counteract the numerical instabilities inherent in certain implementations of rotated neutral diffusion. ""laplacian diffusivity"" means diffusivity for use with a Laplacian diffusion operator."
ocean montgomery potential	Mongomery potential is defined as M = ap + gz, where a = specific volume, p = pressure, g = gravity, and z=depth. It represents an exact streamfunction on specificvolume anomaly surfaces.
ocean relative vorticity	Relative vorticity is the upward component of the relative vorticity vector i.e. the component which arises from horizontal velocity.
ocean rigid lid pressure	"""Ocean rigid lid pressure"" means the pressure at the surface of an ocean model assuming that it is bounded above by a rigid lid."
ocean rigid lid pressure expressed as sea surface height above geoid	"""Ocean rigid lid pressure"" means the pressure at the surface of an ocean model assuming that it is bounded above by a rigid lid. ""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean). In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
ocean s coordinate	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates.
ocean s coordinate g1	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates.
ocean s coordinate g2	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates.
ocean salt x transport	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. Salt transport refers to the mass of salt being transported."
ocean salt y transport	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. Salt transport refers to the mass of salt being transported."
ocean sigma coordinate	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates. Note that the ocean sigma coordinate is not the same quantity as sea water sigma (excess of density over 1000 kg m-3), for which there are various other standard names.
ocean sigma z coordinate	See Appendix D of the CF convention for information about dimensionless vertical coordinates.
ocean tracer biharmonic diffusivity due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum. The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. ""biharmonicdiffusivity"" means diffusivity for use with a biharmonic diffusion operator. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean tracer diffusivity due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum. The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean tracer epineutral biharmonic diffusivity	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. ""epineutral diffusivity"" means a lateral diffusivity along a either a neutral or isopycnal density surface due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of an ocean model. The type of density surface is dependent on the model formulation. ""biharmonic diffusivity"" means diffusivity for use with a biharmonic diffusion operator."
ocean tracer epineutral laplacian diffusivity	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. ""epineutral diffusivity"" means a lateral diffusivity along a either a neutral or isopycnal density surface due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of an ocean model. The type of density surface is dependent on the model formulation. ""laplacian diffusivity"" means diffusivity for use with a Laplacian diffusion operator."
ocean tracer laplacian diffusivity due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum. The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions.  ""laplacian diffusivity"" means diffusivity for use with a Laplacian diffusion operator. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean tracer xy biharmonic diffusivity	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. ""xy diffusivity"" means the lateral along_coordinate component of diffusivity due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model.  xy diffusivities are used in some ocean models to counteract the numerical instabilities inherent in certain implementations of rotated neutral diffusion. ""biharmonic diffusivity"" means diffusivity for use with a biharmonic diffusion operator."
ocean tracer xy laplacian diffusivity	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. ""xy diffusivity"" means the lateral along_coordinate component of diffusivity due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model.  xy diffusivities are used in some ocean models to counteract the numerical instabilities inherent in certain implementations of rotated neutral diffusion. ""laplacian diffusivity"" means diffusivity for use with a Laplacian diffusion operator."
ocean vertical diffusivity	"""Vertical diffusivity"" means the vertical component of diffusivity due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model."
ocean vertical heat diffusivity	"""Vertical heat diffusivity"" means the vertical component of the diffusivity of heat due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model."
ocean vertical momentum diffusivity	"""Vertical momentum diffusivity"" means the vertical component of the diffusivity of momentum due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model."
ocean vertical momentum diffusivity due to background	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. The construction vertical_X_diffusivity means the vertical component of thediffusivity of X due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model. ""Due to background"" means caused by a time invariant imposed field which may be eitherconstant over the globe or spatially varying, depending on the ocean model used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
ocean vertical momentum diffusivity due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Vertical momentum diffusivity"" means the vertical component of the diffusivity of momentum due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model. Convective mixing in the ocean is somtimes modelled as an enhanced diffusivity."
ocean vertical momentum diffusivity due to form drag	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. The construction vertical_X_diffusivity means the vertical component of thediffusivity of X due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model. ""Due to form drag"" refers to a vertical diffusivity resulting from a model scheme representing  mesoscale eddy-induced form drag. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
ocean vertical momentum diffusivity due to tides	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. The construction vertical_X_diffusivity means the vertical component of thediffusivity of X due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model. ""Due to tides"" means due to all astronomical gravity changes which manifest as tides.No distinction is made between different tidal components. The specification of a physicalprocess by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
ocean vertical salt diffusivity	"""Vertical salt diffusivity"" means the vertical component of the diffusivity of salt due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model."
ocean vertical tracer diffusivity	"""Vertical tracer diffusivity"" means the vertical component of the diffusivity of tracers, i.e. heat and salinity, due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model."
ocean vertical tracer diffusivity due to background	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. The construction vertical_X_diffusivity means the vertical component of thediffusivity of X due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model. ""Due to background"" means caused by a time invariant imposed field which may be eitherconstant over the globe or spatially varying, depending on the ocean model used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
ocean vertical tracer diffusivity due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Vertical tracer diffusivity"" means the vertical component of the diffusivity of tracers, i.e. heat and salinity, due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model.  Convective mixing in the ocean is sometimes modelled as an enhanced diffusivity."
ocean vertical tracer diffusivity due to tides	"Diffusivity is also sometimes known as the coefficient of diffusion. Diffusion occurs as a result of a gradient in the spatial distribution of mass concentration, temperature or momentum.  The diffusivity may be very different in the vertical and horizontal directions. The construction vertical_X_diffusivity means the vertical component of thediffusivity of X due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model. ""Due to tides"" means due to all astronomical gravity changes which manifest as tides.No distinction is made between different tidal components. The specification of a physicalprocess by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
ocean vertical tracer diffusivity due to wind mixing	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Vertical tracer diffusivity"" means the vertical component of the diffusivity of tracers, i.e. heat and salinity, due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model."
ocean volume fraction	"""X_volume_fraction"" means the fraction of volume occupied by X."
ocean volume transport across line	"Transport ""across_line"" means that which crosses a particular line on the Earth's surface; formally this means the integral along the line of the normal component of the transport."
ocean volume x transport	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x."
ocean volume y transport	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. "
ocean y overturning mass streamfunction	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. In contrast to the quantity with standard name ocean_meridional_overturning_streamfunction, this quantity includes all physical processes, resolved or parameterized, that impact mass/volume transport.  Thus it includes contributions from the bolus and Gent-McWilliams velocity."
ocean y overturning mass streamfunction due to parameterized eddy advection	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean y overturning mass streamfunction due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection."
ocean y overturning mass streamfunction due to parameterized submesoscale eddy advection	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized submesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of the order of 1km horizontally. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. There are also standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection."
omnidirectional photosynthetic spherical irradiance in sea water	"""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. Omnidirectional spherical irradiance is the radiation incident on unit area of a spherical (or ""4-pi"") collector. It is sometimes called ""scalar irradiance"". Radiation incident on a 2-pi collector has standard names of ""spherical irradiance"" which specify up/downwelling."
omnidirectional spherical irradiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"Omnidirectional spherical irradiance is the radiation incident on unit area of a spherical (or ""4-pi"") collector. It is sometimes called ""scalar irradiance"". Radiation incident on a 2-pi collector has standard names of ""spherical irradiance"" which specify up/downwelling. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
optical thickness of atmosphere layer due to ambient aerosol particles	"The optical thickness is the integral along the path of radiation of a volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient. The radiative flux is reduced by a factor exp(-optical_thickness) on traversing the path. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be specified to indicate that the optical thickness applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
original air pressure of lifted parcel	"Various stability and convective potential indices are calculated by ""lifting"" a parcel of air: moving it dry adiabatically from a starting height (often the surface) to the Lifting Condensation Level, and then wet adiabatically from there to an ending height (often the top of the data/model/atmosphere). The quantities with standard names original_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel and final_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel are the ambient air pressure at the start and end of lifting, respectively. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
partial pressure of carbon dioxide in sea water	The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2.
partial pressure of methane in sea water	The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume. The chemical formula for methane is CH4.
permafrost layer thickness	"Permafrost is soil or rock that has remained at a temperature at or below zero degrees Celsius throughout the seasonal cycle for two or more years. ""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer."
phase of global average sea level change	"Global average sea level change is due to change in volume of the water in the ocean, caused by mass and/or density change, or to change in the volume of the ocean basins, caused by tectonics etc. It is sometimes called ""eustatic"", which is a term that also has other definitions. It differs from the change in the global average sea surface height relative to the centre of the Earth by the global average vertical movement of the ocean floor. Zero sea level change is an arbitrary level. Phase is the initial angle of a wave modelled by a sinusoidal function. A coordinate variable of harmonic_period should be used to specify the period of the sinusoidal wave. Because global average sea level change quantifies the change in volume of the world ocean, it is not calculated necessarily by considering local changes in mean sea level."
photolysis rate of nitrogen dioxide	"""Photolysis"" is a chemical reaction in which a chemical compound is broken down by photons. The ""reaction rate"" is the rate at which the reactants of a chemical reaction form the products. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2."
photolysis rate of ozone to 1D oxygen atom	"""Photolysis"" is a chemical reaction in which a chemical compound is broken down by photons. The ""reaction rate"" is the rate at which the reactants of a chemical reaction form the products. The chemical formula for ozone is O3. The IUPAC name for ozone is trioxygen. ""1D oxygen atom"" means the singlet D state, an excited state, of the oxygen atom."
plant respiration carbon flux	"""Respiration carbon"" refers to the rate at which biomass is respired expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Plant respiration is the sum of respiration by parts of plants both above and below the soil. Plants which photosynthesise are autotrophs i.e. ""producers"" of the biomass which they respire from inorganic precursors using sunlight for energy. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
platform azimuth angle	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. Platform azimuth angle is the horizontal angle between the line of sight from the observation point to the platform and a reference direction at the observation point, which is often due north. The angle is measured clockwise positive, starting from the reference direction. A comment attribute should be added to a data variable with the standard name platform_azimuth_angle to specify the reference direction. A standard name also exists for sensor_azimuth_angle. For some viewing geometries the sensor and the platform cannot be assumed to be close enough to neglect the difference in calculated azimuth angle.
platform course	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. The platform course is the direction in which the platform is travelling (not necessarily the same as the direction in which it is pointing, called platform_orientation).
platform id	A variable with the standard name of platform_id contains strings which help to identify the platform from which an observation was made. For example, this may be a WMO station identification number.
platform name	"A variable with the standard name of platform_name contains strings which help to identify the platform from which an observation was made. For example, this may be a geographical place name such as ""South Pole"" or the name of a meteorological observing station."
platform orientation	"Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. The platform orientation is the direction in which the ""front"" or longitudinal axis of the platform is pointing (not necessarily the same as the direction in which it is travelling, called platform_course)."
platform pitch angle	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite.
platform pitch rate	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite.
platform roll angle	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite.
platform roll rate	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite.
platform speed wrt air	"""wrt"" means with respect to. Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. The platform speed with respect to air is often called the ""air speed"" of the platform."
platform speed wrt ground	"""wrt"" means with respect to. Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. The platform speed with respect to ground is relative to the solid Earth beneath it, i.e. the sea floor for a ship. It is often called the ""ground speed"" of the platform."
platform speed wrt sea water	"""wrt"" means with respect to. Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite."
platform view angle	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. Platform view angle is the angle between the line of sight from the platform and the direction straight vertically down. Zero view angle means looking directly beneath the platform. There is no standardized sign convention for platform_view_angle. A standard name also exists for sensor_view_angle. For some viewing geometries the sensor and the platform cannot be assumed to be close enough to neglect the difference in calculated view angle.
platform yaw angle	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite.
platform yaw rate	Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite.
platform zenith angle	"Standard names for ""platform"" describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. Platform zenith angle is the the angle between the line of sight to the platform and the local zenith at the observation target. This angle is measured starting from directly overhead and its range is from zero (directly overhead the observation target) to 180 degrees (directly below the observation target). Local zenith is a line perpendicular to the Earth's surface at a given location. ""Observation target"" means a location on the Earth defined by the sensor performing the observations. A standard name also exists for sensor_zenith_angle. For some viewing geometries the sensor and the platform cannot be assumed to be close enough to neglect the difference in calculated zenith angle."
potential energy content of atmosphere layer	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)"
potential vorticity of atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Atmosphere potential vorticity is the vertically averaged absolute vorticity of a layer of the atmosphere divided by the pressure difference from the bottom to the top of the layer."
potential vorticity of ocean layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Ocean potential vorticity is the vertically averaged absolute vorticity of a layer of the ocean divided by the thickness of the layer."
precipitation amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
precipitation flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
precipitation flux onto canopy	"""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  Unless indicated in the cell_methods attribute, a quantity is assumed to apply to the whole area of each horizontal grid box. Previously, the qualifier where_type was used to specify that the quantity applies only to the part of the grid box of the named type.  Names containing the where_type qualifier are deprecated and newly created data should use the cell_methods attribute to indicate the horizontal area to which the quantity applies."
pressure at effective cloud top defined by infrared radiation	"The ""effective cloud top defined by infrared radiation"" is (approximately) the geometric height above the surface that is one optical depth at infrared wavelengths (in the region of 11 micrometers) below the cloud top that would be detected by visible and lidar techniques. Reference: Minnis, P. et al 2011 CERES Edition-2 Cloud Property Retrievals Using TRMM VIRS and Terra and Aqua MODIS Data x2014; Part I: Algorithms IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing, 49(11), 4374-4400. doi: http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TGRS.2011.2144601."
product of air temperature and omega	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. ""omegaX"" is used for brevity to mean ""lagrangian_tendency_of_air_pressure in standard names constructed as a combination of omega with some other quantity."
product of air temperature and specific humidity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
product of eastward sea water velocity and salinity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
product of eastward sea water velocity and temperature	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward)."
product of eastward wind and air temperature	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
product of eastward wind and geopotential height	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. Geopotential height is the geopotential divided by the standard acceleration due to gravity. It is numerically similar to the altitude (or geometric height) and not to the quantity with standard name height, which is relative to the surface. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
product of eastward wind and northward wind	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
product of eastward wind and omega	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) ""omegaX"" is used for brevity to mean ""lagrangian_tendency_of_air_pressure in standard names constructed as a combination of omega with some other quantity."
product of eastward wind and specific humidity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""specific"" means per unit mass. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
product of eastward wind and upward air velocity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) Upward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector."
product of geopotential height and omega	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. Geopotential height is the geopotential divided by the standard acceleration due to gravity. It is numerically similar to the altitude (or geometric height) and not to the quantity with standard name height, which is relative to the surface. ""omegaX"" is used for brevity to mean ""lagrangian_tendency_of_air_pressure in standard names constructed as a combination of omega with some other quantity."
product of northward sea water velocity and salinity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
product of northward sea water velocity and temperature	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward)."
product of northward wind and air temperature	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
product of northward wind and geopotential height	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. Geopotential height is the geopotential divided by the standard acceleration due to gravity. It is numerically similar to the altitude (or geometric height) and not to the quantity with standard name height, which is relative to the surface. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
product of northward wind and omega	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) ""omegaX"" is used for brevity to mean ""lagrangian_tendency_of_air_pressure in standard names constructed as a combination of omega with some other quantity."
product of northward wind and specific humidity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""specific"" means per unit mass. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
product of northward wind and upward air velocity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) Upward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector."
product of omega and air temperature	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. ""omegaX"" is used for brevity to mean ""lagrangian_tendency_of_air_pressure in standard names constructed as a combination of omega with some other quantity."
product of omega and specific humidity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air. ""omegaX"" is used for brevity to mean ""lagrangian_tendency_of_air_pressure in standard names constructed as a combination of omega with some other quantity."
product of specific humidity and omega	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air. ""omegaX"" is used for brevity to mean ""lagrangian_tendency_of_air_pressure in standard names constructed as a combination of omega with some other quantity."
product of upward air velocity and air temperature	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Upward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector."
product of upward air velocity and specific humidity	"""product_of_X_and_Y"" means X*Y. ""specific"" means per unit mass. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air. Upward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector."
projection x coordinate	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, when this is not true longitude, positive with increasing x. Projection coordinates are distances in the x- and y-directions on a plane onto which the surface of the Earth has been projected according to a map projection. The relationship between the projection coordinates and latitude and longitude is described by the grid_mapping."
projection y coordinate	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, when this is not true latitude, positive with increasing y. Projection coordinates are distances in the x- and y-directions on a plane onto which the surface of the Earth has been projected according to a map projection. The relationship between the projection coordinates and latitude and longitude is described by the grid_mapping."
pseudo equivalent potential temperature	Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure.
radial sea water velocity away from instrument	"A velocity is a vector quantity.  Radial velocity away from instrument means the component of the velocity along the line of sight of the instrument where positive implies movement away from the instrument (i.e. outward). The ""instrument"" (examples are radar and lidar) is the device used to make an observation."
radial velocity of scatterers away from instrument	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Radial velocity away from instrument"" means the component of the velocity of the scatterers along the line of sight of the instrument where positive implies movement away from the instrument (i.e. outward). The ""instrument"" (examples are radar and lidar) is the device used to make the observation, and the ""scatterers"" are what causes the transmitted signal to be returned to the instrument (examples are aerosols, hydrometeors and refractive index irregularities), of whatever kind the instrument detects."
radiation frequency	Frequency is the number of oscillations of a wave per unit time.  The radiation frequency can refer to any electromagnetic wave, such as light, heat radiation and radio waves.
radiation wavelength	The radiation wavelength can refer to any electromagnetic wave, such as light, heat radiation and radio waves.
radius of tropical cyclone central dense overcast region	The average radius of a central region of clouds in tropical cyclones lacking well-defined eye features, which is computed by averaging the great circle distance in four cardinal directions. The radius in each direction is measured from the estimated storm center position to a warm point that exceeds a threshold brightness temperature at top of atmosphere limit. The threshold applied should be recorded in a coordinate variable having the standard_name of toa_brightness_temperature. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength, sensor_band_central_radiation_wavelength, or radiation_frequency may be specified to indicate that the brightness temperature applies at specific wavelengths or frequencies.
radius of tropical cyclone eye	The radius of a tropical cyclone eye is defined to be the great circle distance measured from the cyclone center to the eye wall.
radius of tropical cyclone maximum sustained wind speed	The great circle distance measured from the tropical cyclone center to the region of sustained 1-minute duration maximum wind speed, as defined by the standard name, tropical_cyclone_maximum_sustained_wind_speed.
rainfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
rainfall flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
rate of hydroxyl radical destruction due to reaction with nmvoc	"The ""reaction rate"" is the rate at which the reactants of a chemical reaction form the products. The rate of ""hydroxyl radical destruction due to reaction with nmvoc"" is the nmvoc reactivity with regard to reactions with OH. It is the weighted sum of the reactivity of all individual nmvoc species with OH. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The chemical formula for the hydroxyl radical is OH. In chemistry, a ""radical"" is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
ratio of sea water potential temperature anomaly to relaxation timescale	"The quantity with standard name ratio_of_sea_water_potential_temperature_anomaly_to_relaxation_timescale is a correction term applied to modelled sea water potential temperature. The term is estimated as the deviation of model local sea water potential temperature from an observation-based climatology (e.g. World Ocean Database) weighted by a user-specified relaxation coefficient in s-1 (1/(relaxation timescale)). Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure. The phrase ""ratio_of_X_to_Y"" means X/Y. The term ""anomaly"" means difference from climatology."
ratio of sea water practical salinity anomaly to relaxation timescale	"The quantity with standard name ratio_of_sea_water_practical_salinity_anomaly_to_relaxation_timescale is a correction term applied to modelled sea water practical salinity. The term is estimated as the deviation of model local sea water practical salinity from an observation-based climatology (e.g. World Ocean Database) weighted by a user-specified relaxation coefficient in s-1 (1/(relaxation timescale)). The phrase ""ratio_of_X_to_Y"" means X/Y. The term ""anomaly"" means difference from climatology. Practical Salinity, S_P, is a determination of the salinity of sea water, based on its electrical conductance. The measured conductance, corrected for temperature and pressure, is compared to the conductance of a standard potassium chloride solution, producing a value on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78). This name should not be used to describe salinity observations made before 1978, or ones not based on conductance measurements. Conversion of Practical Salinity to other precisely defined salinity measures should use the appropriate formulas specified by TEOS-10. Other standard names for precisely defined salinity quantities are sea_water_absolute_salinity (S_A); sea_water_preformed_salinity (S_*), sea_water_reference_salinity (S_R); sea_water_cox_salinity (S_C), used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977; and sea_water_knudsen_salinity (S_K), used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions shoul d be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Lewis, 1980 doi:10.1109/JOE.1980.1145448."
ratio of x derivative of ocean rigid lid pressure to sea surface density	"Sea surface density is the density of sea water near the surface (including the part under sea-ice, if any). ""component_derivative_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be northward, southward, eastward, westward, x or y. The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, whether or not they are true longitude and latitude.  ""ratio_of_X_to_Y""  means X/Y.  ""Ocean rigid lid pressure"" means the pressure at the surface of an ocean model assuming that it is bounded above by a rigid lid."
ratio of y derivative of ocean rigid lid pressure to sea surface density	"Sea surface density is the density of sea water near the surface (including the part under sea-ice, if any). ""component_derivative_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be northward, southward, eastward, westward, x or y. The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, whether or not they are true longitude and latitude.  ""ratio_of_X_to_Y"" means X/Y.  ""Ocean rigid lid pressure"" means the pressure at the surface of an ocean model assuming that it is bounded above by a rigid lid."
realization	Realization is used to label a dimension that can be thought of asa statistical sample, e.g., labelling members of a model ensemble.
reference air pressure for atmosphere vertical coordinate	"For models using a dimensionless vertical coordinate, for example, sigma, hybrid sigma-pressure or eta, the values of the vertical coordinate at the model levels are calculated relative to a reference level. ""Reference air pressure"" is the air pressure at the model reference level. It is a model-dependent constant."
reference sea water density for boussinesq approximation	Sea water density is the in-situ density (not the potential density). For a rigid lid Boussinesq geopotential ocean model the density of the sea water is maintained at a constant reference density.  In a model using the rigid lid Boussinesq approximation , the vertical grid coordinates (and hence the grid cell volumes) are time invariant.
region	A variable with the standard name of region contains strings which indicate geographical regions. These strings must be chosen from the standard region list.
relative humidity for aerosol particle size selection	"Relative humidity at which the size of a sampled aerosol particle was selected. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself."
relative platform azimuth angle	"Standard names for platform describe the motion and orientation of the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship or satellite. relative_platform_azimuth_angle is the difference between the viewing geometries from two different platforms over the same observation target. It is the difference between the values of two quantities with standard name platform_azimuth_angle. There is no standardized sign convention for  relative_platform_azimuth_angle. ""Observation target"" means a location on the Earth defined by the sensor performing the observations. A standard name also exists for relative_sensor_azimuth_angle. For some viewing geometries the sensor and the platform cannot be assumed to be close enough to neglect the difference in calculated azimuth angle."
relative sensor azimuth angle	"relative_sensor_azimuth_angle is the difference between the viewing geometries from two different sensors over the same observation target. It is the difference between the values of two quantities with standard name sensor_azimuth_angle. There is no standardized sign convention for relative_sensor_azimuth_angle. ""Observation target"" means a location on the Earth defined by the sensor performing the observations. A standard name also exists for relative_platform_azimuth_angle, where ""platform"" refers to the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship, or satellite. For some viewing geometries the sensor and the platform cannot be assumed to be close enough to neglect the difference in calculated azimuth angle."
richardson number in sea water	Richardson number is a measure of dynamic stability and can be used to diagnose the existence of turbulent flow.  It is defined as the ratio of the buoyant suppression of turbulence (i.e. how statically stable or unstable the conditions are)  to the kinetic energy available to generate turbulence  in a shear flow.
root carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area."
root depth	Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. The root depth is maximum depth of soil reached by plant roots, from which they can extract moisture.
runoff amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage."
runoff amount excluding baseflow	"Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. ""Runoff_excluding_baseflow"" is the sum of surface runoff and subsurface runoff excluding baseflow.  Baseflow is subsurface runoff which takes place below the level of the water table.  ""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
runoff flux	"Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
salt flux into sea water from rivers	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
scattering angle	The scattering angle is that between the direction of the beam of incident radiation and the direction into which it is scattered.
scene type of dvorak tropical cyclone cloud region	A variable with the standard name of scene_type_of_dvorak_tropical_cyclone_cloud_region contains integers which can be translated to strings using flag_values and flag_meanings attributes. It indicates the Advanced Dvorak Technique tropical cyclone cloud region scene type chosen from the following list: uniform_central_dense_overcast; embedded_center; irregular_central_dense_overcast; curved_band; shear. Alternatively, the data variable may contain strings chosen from the same standardised list to indicate the scene type. Reference: Olander, T. L., & Velden, C. S., The Advanced Dvorak Technique: Continued Development of an Objective Scheme to Estimate Tropical Cyclone Intensity Using Geostationary Infrared Satellite Imagery (2007). American Meterorological Society Weather and Forecasting, 22, 287-298.
scene type of dvorak tropical cyclone eye region	A variable with the standard name of scene_type_of_dvorak_tropical_cyclone_eye_region contains integers which can be translated to strings using flag_values and flag_meanings attributes. It indicates the Advanced Dvorak Technique tropical cyclone eye region scene type chosen from the following list: clear_ragged_or_obscured_eye; pinhole_eye; large_eye;  no_eye.  Alternatively, the data variable may contain strings chosen from the same standardised list to indicate the scene type. Reference: Olander, T. L., & Velden, C. S., The Advanced Dvorak Technique: Continued Development of an Objective Scheme to Estimate Tropical Cyclone Intensity Using Geostationary Infrared Satellite Imagery (2007). American Meterorological Society Weather and Forecasting, 22, 287-298.
sea area	"""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. The extent of an individual grid cell is defined by the horizontal coordinates and any associated coordinate bounds or by a string valued auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of ""region""."
sea area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell."
sea floor depth below geoid	"""Depth_below_X"" means the vertical distance below the named surface X. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean). In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
sea floor depth below geopotential datum	"""Depth_below_X"" means the vertical distance below the named surface X. The ""geopotential datum"" is any estimated surface of constant geopotential used as a datum i.e. a reference level; for the geoid as a datum, specific standard names are available. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
sea floor depth below mean sea level	"""Depth_below_X"" means the vertical distance below the named surface X. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals."
sea floor depth below reference ellipsoid	"""Depth_below_X"" means the vertical distance below the named surface X. A reference ellipsoid is a regular mathematical figure that approximates the irregular shape of the geoid. A number of reference ellipsoids are defined for use in the field of geodesy. To specify which reference ellipsoid is being used, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
sea floor depth below sea surface	The sea_floor_depth_below_sea_surface is the vertical distance between the sea surface and the seabed as measured at a given point in space including the variance caused by tides and possibly waves.
sea ice albedo	The albedo of sea ice.
sea ice amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
sea ice and surface snow amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  Surface amount refers to the amount on the ground, excluding that on the plant or vegetation canopy.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
sea ice area	"""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. The extent of an individual grid cell is defined by the horizontal coordinates and any associated coordinate bounds or by a string valued auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of ""region""."
sea ice area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. Sea ice area fraction is area of the sea surface occupied by sea ice. It is also called ""sea ice concentration""."
sea ice classification	A variable with the standard name of sea_ice_classification contains strings which indicate the character of the ice surface e.g. open_ice, or first_year_ice. These strings have not yet been standardised. However, and whenever possible, they should follow the terminology defined in the WMO Standard Nomenclature for Sea Ice Classification. Alternatively, the data variable may contain integers which can be translated to strings using flag_values and flag_meanings attributes.
sea ice draft	Sea ice draft is the depth of the sea-ice lower surface below the water surface.
sea ice extent	"The term sea_ice_extent means the total area of all grid cells in which the sea ice area fraction equals or exceeds a threshold, often chosen to be 15 per cent. The threshold must be specified by supplying a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of sea_ice_area_fraction.  The horizontal domain over which sea ice extent is calculated is described by the associated coordinate variables and coordinate bounds or by a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of ""region"" supplied according to section 6.1.1 of the CF conventions."
sea ice freeboard	Sea ice freeboard is the height of the sea-ice upper surface above the water surface.
sea ice salinity	Sea ice salinity is the salt content of sea ice, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s.
sea ice speed	Speed is the magnitude of velocity.
sea ice surface temperature	"The surface temperature is the (skin) temperature at the interface, not the bulk temperature of the medium above or below.  ""Sea ice surface temperature"" is the temperature that exists at the interface of sea ice and an overlying medium which may be air or snow.  In areas of snow covered sea ice, sea_ice_surface_temperature is not the same as the quantity with standard name surface_temperature."
sea ice transport across line	Transport across_line means that which crosses a particular line on the Earth's surface; formally this means the integral along the line of the normal component of the transport.
sea ice volume	"""X_volume"" means the volume occupied by X within the grid cell."
sea ice x displacement	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Displacement"" means the change in geospatial position of an object that has moved over time. If possible, the time interval over which the motion took place should be specified using a bounds variable for the time coordinate variable.  A displacement can be represented as a vector. Such a vector should however not be interpreted as describing a rectilinear, constant speed motion but merely as an indication that the start point of the vector is found at the tip of the vector after the time interval associated with the displacement variable.  A displacement does not prescribe a trajectory. Sea ice displacement can be defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component. An x displacement is calculated from the difference in the moving object's grid x coordinate between the start and end of the time interval associated with the displacement variable."
sea ice x transport	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x."
sea ice x velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x."
sea ice y displacement	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Displacement"" means the change in geospatial position of an object that has moved over time. If possible, the time interval over which the motion took place should be specified using a bounds variable for the time coordinate variable. A displacement can be represented as a vector. Such a vector should however not be interpreted as describing a rectilinear, constant speed motion but merely as an indication that the start point of the vector is found at the tip of the vector after the time interval associated with the displacement variable.  A displacement does not prescribe a trajectory. Sea ice displacement can be defined as a two-dimensional vector, with no vertical component. A y displacement is calculated from the difference in the moving object's grid y coordinate between the start and end of the time interval associated with the displacement variable."
sea ice y transport	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y."
sea ice y velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y."
sea surface density	Sea surface density is the density of sea water near the surface (including the part under sea-ice, if any).
sea surface foundation temperature	"The sea surface foundation temperature is the water temperature that is not influenced by a thermally stratified layer of diurnal temperature variability (either by daytime warming or nocturnal cooling). The foundation temperature is named to indicate that it is the temperature from which the growth of the diurnal thermocline develops each day, noting that on some occasions with a deep mixed layer there is no clear foundation temperature in the surface layer. In general, sea surface foundation temperature will be similar to a night time minimum or pre-dawn value at depths of between approximately 1 and 5 meters. In the absence of any diurnal signal, the foundation temperature is considered equivalent to the quantity with standard name sea_surface_subskin_temperature. The sea surface foundation temperature defines a level in the upper water column that varies in depth, space, and time depending on the local balance between thermal stratification and turbulent energy and is expected to change slowly over the course of a day. If possible, a data variable with the standard name sea_surface_foundation_temperature should be used with a scalar vertical coordinate variable to specify the depth of the foundation level. Sea surface foundation temperature is measured at the base of the diurnal thermocline or as close to the water surface as possible in the absence of thermal stratification. Only in situ contact thermometry is able to measure the sea surface foundation temperature. Analysis procedures must be used to estimate sea surface foundation temperature value from radiometric satellite measurements of the quantities with standard names sea_surface_skin_temperature and sea_surface_subskin_temperature. Sea surface foundation temperature provides a connection with the historical concept of a ""bulk"" sea surface temperature considered representative of the oceanic mixed layer temperature that is typically represented by any sea temperature measurement within the upper ocean over a depth range of 1 to approximately 20 meters. The general term, ""bulk"" sea surface temperature, has the standard name sea_surface_temperature with no associated vertical coordinate axis. Sea surface foundation temperature provides a more precise, well defined quantity than ""bulk"" sea surface temperature and, consequently, is more representative of the mixed layer temperature. The temperature of sea water at a particular depth (other than the foundation level) should be reported using the standard name sea_water_temperature and, wherever possible, supplying a vertical coordinate axis or scalar coordinate variable."
sea surface height above geoid	"""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. ""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean). In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention. By definition of the geoid, the global average of the time-mean sea surface height (i.e. mean sea level) above the geoid must be zero. The standard name for the height of the sea surface above mean sea level is sea_surface_height_above_mean_sea_level. The standard name for the height of the sea surface above the reference ellipsoid is sea_surface_height_above_reference_ellipsoid."
sea surface height above geopotential datum	"""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. ""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. The ""geopotential datum"" is any estimated surface of constant geopotential used as a datum i.e. a reference level; for the geoid as a datum, specific standard names are available. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
sea surface height above mean sea level	"""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. ""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. The standard name for the height of the sea surface above the geoid is sea_surface_height_above_geoid. The standard name for the height of the sea surface above the reference ellipsoid is sea_surface_height_above_reference_ellipsoid."
sea surface height above reference ellipsoid	"""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. ""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. A reference ellipsoid is a regular mathematical figure that approximates the irregular shape of the geoid. A number of reference ellipsoids are defined for use in the field of geodesy. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. To specify which reference ellipsoid is being used, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention. The standard name for the height of the sea surface above the geoid is sea_surface_height_above_geoid. The standard name for the height of the sea surface above mean sea level is sea_surface_height_above_mean_sea_level."
sea surface height amplitude due to earth tide	The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Tides are a significant contributor to the observed sea surface height; earth tide means the solid earth tide.
sea surface height amplitude due to equilibrium ocean tide	The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Tides are a significant contributor to the observed sea surface height; equilibrium ocean tide refers to the long period ocean tide.
sea surface height amplitude due to geocentric ocean tide	The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Tides are a significant contributor to the observed sea surface height; geocentric ocean tide means the sum total of ocean tide and load tide.
sea surface height amplitude due to non equilibrium ocean tide	The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Tides are a significant contributor to the observed sea surface height; non equilibrium ocean tide refers to the long period ocean tide.
sea surface height amplitude due to pole tide	The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Tides are a significant contributor to the observed sea surface height; the pole tide occurs due to variations in the earth's rotation.
sea surface height bias due to sea surface roughness	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  Altimeter pulses tend to be more strongly refelected by the troughs of sea surface waves than by the crests leading to a bias in the measured sea surface height. This quantity is commonly known as ""sea state bias""."
sea surface height correction due to air pressure and wind at high frequency	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Air pressure and wind at high frequency"" means variations in air pressure with periods shorter  than 20 days. These give rise to corresponding variations in sea surface topography. The quantity sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_and_wind_at_high_frequency  should be applied by adding it to the quantity with standard name altimeter_range.  Additional altimeter range corrections are given by the quantities with standard names altimeter_range_correction_due_to_wet_troposphere, altimeter_range_correction_due_to_dry_troposphere, altimeter_range_correction_due_to_ionosphere and sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_at_low_frequency."
sea surface height correction due to air pressure at low frequency	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Air pressure at low frequency"" means variations in air pressure with periods longer than 20 days. These give rise to corresponding variations in sea surface topography. The quantity sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_at_low_frequency is commonly called the ""inverted barometer effect"" and the correction should be applied by adding it to the quantity with standard name altimeter_range.  Additional altimeter range corrections are given by the quantities with standard names altimeter_range_correction_due_to_wet_troposphere, altimeter_range_correction_due_to_dry_troposphere, altimeter_range_correction_due_to_ionosphere and sea_surface_height_correction_due_to_air_pressure_and_wind_at_high_frequency."
sea surface primary swell wave from direction	"The quantity with standard name sea_surface_primary_swell_wave_from_direction is the direction from which the most energetic swell waves are coming. Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The primary swell wave is the most energetic swell wave. The phrase ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea surface primary swell wave mean period	The quantity with standard name sea_surface_primary_swell_wave_mean_period is the mean period of the most energetic swell waves. Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The primary swell wave is the most energetic swell wave. A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level. Wave mean period is the mean period measured over the observation duration.
sea surface primary swell wave significant height	Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The primary swell wave is the most energetic swell wave. Significant wave height is a statistic computed from wave measurements and corresponds to the average height of the highest one third of the waves, where the height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest.
sea surface salinity	"Sea surface salinity is the salt content of sea water close to the sea surface, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and the units attribute should normally be given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. Sea surface salinity is often abbreviated as ""SSS"". For the salinity of sea water at a particular depth or layer, a data variable of ""sea_water_salinity"" or one of the more precisely defined salinities should be used with a vertical coordinate axis. There are standard names for the precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
sea surface secondary swell wave from direction	"The quantity with standard name sea_surface_secondary_swell_wave_from_direction is the direction from which the second most energetic swell waves are coming. Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The secondary swell wave is the second most energetic wave in the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The phrase ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea surface secondary swell wave mean period	The quantity with standard name sea_surface_secondary_swell_wave_mean_period is the mean period of the second most energetic swell waves. Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum.  The secondary swell wave is the second most energetic wave in the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level. Wave mean period is the mean period measured over the observation duration.
sea surface secondary swell wave significant height	Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The secondary swell wave is the second most energetic wave in the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. Significant wave height is a statistic computed from wave measurements and corresponds to the average height of the highest one third of the waves, where the height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest.
sea surface skin temperature	The sea surface skin temperature is the temperature measured by an infrared radiometer typically operating at wavelengths in the range 3.7 - 12 micrometers. It represents the temperature within the conductive diffusion-dominated sub-layer at a depth of approximately 10 - 20 micrometers below the air-sea interface. Measurements of this quantity are subject to a large potential diurnal cycle including cool skin layer effects (especially at night under clear skies and low wind speed conditions) and warm layer effects in the daytime.
sea surface subskin temperature	The sea surface subskin temperature is the temperature at the base of the conductive laminar sub-layer of the ocean surface, that is, at a depth of approximately 1 - 1.5 millimeters below the air-sea interface. For practical purposes, this quantity can be well approximated to the measurement of surface temperature by a microwave radiometer operating in the 6 - 11 gigahertz frequency range, but the relationship is neither direct nor invariant to changing physical conditions or to the specific geometry of the microwave measurements. Measurements of this quantity are subject to a large potential diurnal cycle due to thermal stratification of the upper ocean layer in low wind speed high solar irradiance conditions.
sea surface swell wave from direction	"Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The phrase ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea surface swell wave mean period	A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level. Wave mean period is the mean period measured over the observation duration. Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum.
sea surface swell wave mean period from variance spectral density first frequency moment	The swell wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta).  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The first wave period, T(m1), is calculated as the ratio M(0)/M(1).
sea surface swell wave mean period from variance spectral density inverse frequency moment	The swell wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S can be integrated over direction to give  S1= integral(S dtheta).  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The inverse wave period, T(m-1), is calculated as the ratio M(-1)/M(0).
sea surface swell wave mean period from variance spectral density second frequency moment	The swell wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta).  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The second wave period, T(m2), is calculated as the square root of the ratio M(0)/M(2).
sea surface swell wave period	A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface.
sea surface swell wave significant height	Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. Significant wave height is a statistic computed from wave measurements and corresponds to the average height of the highest one third of the waves, where the height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest.
sea surface swell wave to direction	"Swell waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the low frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The phrase ""to_direction"" is used in the construction X_to_direction and indicates the direction towards which the velocity vector of X is headed. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea surface temperature	"Sea surface temperature is usually abbreviated as ""SST"". It is the temperature of sea water near the surface (including the part under sea-ice, if any). More specific terms, namely sea_surface_skin_temperature, sea_surface_subskin_temperature, and surface_termperature are available for the skin, subskin, and interface temperature. respectively. For the temperature of sea water at a particular depth or layer, a data variable of sea_water_temperature with a vertical coordinate axis should be used."
sea surface wave directional variance spectral density	Sea surface wave directional variance spectral density is the variance of the amplitude of the waves within given ranges of direction and wave frequency.
sea surface wave energy at variance spectral density maximum	The wave directional spectrum can be written as a five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction. S has the standard name sea_surface_wave_directional_variance_spectral_density. S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta) and this quantity has the standard name sea_surface_wave_variance_spectral_density. The quantity with standard name sea_surface_wave_energy_at_variance_spectral_density_maximum, sometimes called peak wave energy, is the maximum value of the variance spectral density (max(S1)).
sea surface wave from direction	"The phrase ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea surface wave from direction at variance spectral density maximum	"The quantity with standard name sea_surface_wave_from_direction_at_variance_spectral_density_maximum is the direction from which the most energetic waves are coming. The spectral peak is the most energetic wave in the total wave spectrum. The phrase ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north. The wave directional spectrum can be written as a five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction. S has the standard name sea_surface_wave_directional_variance_spectral_density. S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta) and this quantity has the standard name sea_surface_wave_variance_spectral_density."
sea surface wave maximum crest height	The crest is the highest point of a wave. Crest height is the vertical distance between the crest and the calm sea surface. Maximum crest height is the maximum value measured during the observation period.
sea surface wave maximum height	Wave height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest. The maximum wave height is the greatest trough to crest distance measured during the observation period.
sea surface wave maximum period	The maximum wave period is the longest wave period measured during the observation period. A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level.
sea surface wave maximum steepness	Wave steepness is defined as the ratio of the wave height divided by the wavelength. Maximum wave steepness is the maximum value measured during the observation period. Wave height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest. The wavelength is the horizontal distance between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level.
sea surface wave maximum trough depth	The trough is the lowest point of a wave. Trough depth is the vertical distance between the trough and the calm sea surface. Maximum trough depth is the maximum value measured during the observation period.
sea surface wave mean height	Wave height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest. The mean wave height is the mean trough to crest distance measured during the observation period.
sea surface wave mean height of highest tenth	Wave height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest. The height of the highest tenth is defined as the mean of the highest ten per cent of trough to crest distances measured during the observation period.
sea surface wave mean period	A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level.  Wave mean period is the mean period measured over the observation duration.
sea surface wave mean period from variance spectral density first frequency moment	The wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S has the standard name sea_surface_wave_directional_variance_spectral_density.  S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta) and this quantity has the standard name sea_surface_wave_variance_spectral_density.  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The first wave period, T(m1)  is calculated as the ratio M(0)/M(1).
sea surface wave mean period from variance spectral density inverse frequency moment	The wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S has the standard name sea_surface_wave_directional_variance_spectral_density.  S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta) and this quantity has the standard name sea_surface_wave_variance_spectral_density.  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The inverse wave period, T(m-1), is calculated as the ratio M(-1)/M(0).
sea surface wave mean period from variance spectral density second frequency moment	The wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S has the standard name sea_surface_wave_directional_variance_spectral_density.  S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta) and this quantity has the standard name sea_surface_wave_variance_spectral_density.  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The second wave period, T(m2) is calculated as the square root of the ratio M(0)/M(2).
sea surface wave mean period of highest tenth	Wave mean period is the mean period measured over the observation duration. The quantity with standard name sea_surface_wave_mean_period_of_highest_tenth is the mean period of the highest one-tenth of waves during the observation duration. A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level.
sea surface wave period at variance spectral density maximum	A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation.  The sea_surface_wave_period_at_variance_spectral_density_maximum, sometimes called peak wave period, is the period of the most energetic waves in the total wave spectrum at a specific location.
sea surface wave period of highest wave	Wave period of the highest wave is the period determined from wave crests corresponding to the greatest vertical distance above mean level during the observation period. A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level.
sea surface wave significant height	Significant wave height is a statistic computed from wave measurements and corresponds to the average height of the highest one third of the waves, where the height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest.
sea surface wave significant period	Significant wave period is a statistic computed from wave measurements and corresponds to the mean wave period of the highest one third of the waves. A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level.
sea surface wave stokes drift x velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. The Stokes drift velocity is the average velocity when following a specific fluid parcel as it travels with the fluid flow. For instance, a particle floating at the free surface of water waves, experiences a net Stokes drift velocity in the direction of wave propagation."
sea surface wave stokes drift y velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing y. The Stokes drift velocity is the average velocity when following a specific fluid parcel as it travels with the fluid flow. For instance, a particle floating at the free surface of water waves, experiences a net Stokes drift velocity in the direction of wave propagation."
sea surface wave to direction	"The phrase ""to_direction"" is used in the construction X_to_direction and indicates the direction towards which the velocity vector of X is headed. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea surface wave variance spectral density	Sea surface wave variance spectral density is the variance of wave amplitude within a range of wave frequency.
sea surface wind wave from direction	"Wind waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the high frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The phrase ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea surface wind wave mean period	A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wave period is the interval of time between repeated features on the waveform such as crests, troughs or upward passes through the mean level. Wave mean period is the mean period measured over the observation duration. Wind waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the high frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum.
sea surface wind wave mean period from variance spectral density first frequency moment	The wind wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta) .  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The first wave period, T(m1) is calculated as the ratio M(0)/M(1).
sea surface wind wave mean period from variance spectral density inverse frequency moment	The wind wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S can be integrated over direction to give S1= integral(S dtheta).  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The inverse wave period, T(m-1), is calculated as the ratio M(-1)/M(0).
sea surface wind wave mean period from variance spectral density second frequency moment	The wind wave directional spectrum can be written as a  five dimensional function S(t,x,y,f,theta) where t is time, x and y are horizontal coordinates (such as longitude and latitude), f is frequency and theta is direction.  S can be integrated over direction, thus S1= integral(S dtheta).  Frequency moments, M(n) of S1 can then be calculated as follows: M(n) = integral(S1 f^n df), where f^n is f to the power of n.  The second wave period, T(m2), is calculated as the square root of the ratio M(0)/M(2).
sea surface wind wave period	A period is an interval of time, or the time-period of an oscillation. Wind waves are waves on the ocean surface. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)
sea surface wind wave significant height	Wind waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the high frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. Significant wave height is a statistic computed from wave measurements and corresponds to the average height of the highest one third of the waves, where the height is defined as the vertical distance from a wave trough to the following wave crest.
sea surface wind wave to direction	"Wind waves are waves on the ocean surface and are the high frequency portion of a bimodal wave frequency spectrum. The phrase ""to_direction"" is used in the construction X_to_direction and indicates the direction towards which the velocity vector of X is headed. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea water absolute salinity	"Absolute Salinity, S_A, is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). It is the mass fraction of dissolved material in sea water. Absolute Salinity incorporates the spatial variations in the composition of sea water. This type of Absolute Salinity is also called ""Density Salinity"". TEOS-10 estimates Absolute Salinity as the salinity variable that, when used with the TEOS-10 expression for density, yields the correct density of a sea water sample even when the sample is not of Reference Composition. In practice, Absolute Salinity is often calculated from Practical Salinity using a spatial lookup table of pre-defined values of the Absolute Salinity Anomaly. It is recommended that the version of (TEOS-10) software and the associated Absolute Salinity Anomaly climatology be specified within metadata by attaching a comment attribute to the data variable. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Millero et al., 2008 doi: 10.1016/j.dsr.2007.10.001. There are also standard names for the precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 onwards), sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions should be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity."
sea water age since surface contact	"""Sea water age since surface contact"" means the length of time elapsed since the sea water in a grid cell was last in the surface level of an ocean model."
sea water alkalinity expressed as mole equivalent	'sea_water_alkalinity_expressed_as_mole_equivalent' is the total alkalinity equivalent concentration (including carbonate, nitrogen, silicate, and borate components).
sea water alkalinity natural analogue expressed as mole equivalent	"sea_water_alkalinity_expressed_as_mole_equivalent is the total alkalinity equivalent concentration (including carbonate, nitrogen, silicate, and borate components). In ocean biogeochemistry models, a ""natural analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable of imposing preindustrial atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, even when the model as a whole may be subjected to varying forcings."
sea water conservative temperature	"Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2."
sea water cox salinity	"Cox Salinity, S_C, is defined unitless as a mass fraction per mil (0/00) or ""parts per thousand"". S_C was the standard salinity measure from 1967 until Practical Salinity, S_P, was established with PSS-78 (1978). Chlorinity, Cl, is calculated from the conductivity of a sea water sample and since the work of the Joint Panel for Oceanographic Tables and Standards (JPOTS; 1966) is converted into Cox Salinity using S_C = 1.80655Cl. This type of salinity was called simply ""salinity"" from 1967 to 1978. Cox Salinity was replaced by Practical Salinity in 1978. Cox Salinity is converted to Practical Salinity following S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of this is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of the Practical Salinity Scale 1978 (PSS-78). Reference: Cox et al., 1967 doi: 10.1016/0011-7471(67)90006-X; Lyman, 1969 doi: 10.4319/lo.1969.14.6.0928; Wooster et al., 1969 doi: 10.4319/lo.1969.14.3.0437. There are standard names for the precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P, sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_* and sea_water_reference_salinity. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions should be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity."
sea water density	Sea water density is the in-situ density (not the potential density). If 1000 kg m-3 is subtracted, the standard name sea_water_sigma_t should be chosen instead.
sea water from direction	"The phrase ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea water knudsen salinity	"Knudsen Salinity, S_K, is defined unitless as a mass fraction per mil (0/00) or ""parts per thousand"", and was calculated from the titration of inorganic salts from a sample of sea water after a commission to study the problem of determining salinity and density was initiated by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) in 1899. S_K was the standard salinity measure until S_C (Cox Salinity) was established in 1967. Since the work of Knudsen (1901), chlorinity is converted into Knudsen Salinity using S_K = 0.030 + 1.805 Cl. This type of salinity was called simply ""salinity"" from 1901 to 1966. From the 1960s on, electrical conductivity began to be used to estimate the Knudsen Salinity, rather than chemical titration. Knudsen Salinity was replaced by Cox Salinity in 1967 which was in turn replaced by Practical Salinity, S_P, in 1978. Conversion of Knudsen Salinity to Practical Salinity follows S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805). Reference: Knudsen, 1901; Thomas et al., 1934 doi: 10.1093/icesjms/9.1.28; Lyman, 1969 doi: 10.4319/lo.1969.14.6.0928; Wooster et al., 1969 doi: 10.4319/lo.1969.14.3.0437; Lewis, 1980 doi: 10.1109/JOE.1980.1145448; Millero et al., 2008 doi: 10.1016/j.dsr.2007.10.001. There are standard names for the precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P, sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_* and sea_water_reference_salinity. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions should be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity."
sea water mass	"The quantity with standard name ""sea_water_mass"" is the total mass of liquid seawater in the global oceans, including enclosed seas."
sea water mass per unit area	Sea_water_mass_per_unit_area is the mass per unit area of the sea water contained within each grid cell.
sea water mass per unit area expressed as thickness	"""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer. The quantity with standard name sea_water_mass_per_unit_area_expressed_as_thickness is the thickness of the water column from sea floor to surface, minus any contribution to column thickness from steric changes. The sea water density used to convert mass to thickness is assumed to be the density of water of standard temperature zero degrees Celsius and practical salinity S=35.0 unless an auxiliary scalar coordinate variable with standard name sea_water_density is used to specify an alternative value. The sum of the quantities with standard names sea_water_mass_per_unit_area_expressed_as_thickness and steric_change_in_sea_surface_height is the total thickness of the sea water column. Sea_water_mass_per_unit_area is the mass per unit area of the sea water contained within each grid cell. The extent of an individual grid cell is defined by the horizontal coordinates and any associated coordinate bounds or by a string valued auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of ""region""."
sea water neutral density	"""Neutral density"" is a variable designed so that a surface of constant neutral density everywhere has a local slope that is close to the local slope of the neutral tangent plane. At the sea surface in the equatorial Pacific neutral density is very close to the potential density anomaly. At other locations, this is not the case. For example, along a neutral density surface there is a difference of up to 0.14 kg/m^3 in the potential density anomaly at the outcrops in the Southern and Northern hemispheres. Refer to Jackett & McDougall (1997; Journal of Physical Oceanography, Vol 27, doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(1997)027<0237:ANDVFT>2.0.CO;2) for more information."
sea water ph abiotic analogue reported on total scale	"sea_water_pH_reported_on_total_scale is the measure of acidity of sea water, defined as the negative logarithm of the concentration of dissolved hydrogen ions plus bisulfate ions in a sea water medium; it can be measured or calculated; when measured the scale is defined according to a series of buffers prepared in artificial seawater containing bisulfate. The quantity may be written as pH(total) = -log([H+](free) + [HSO4-]). In ocean biogeochemistry models, an ""abiotic analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable when biological effects on ocean carbon concentration and alkalinity are ignored."
sea water ph natural analogue reported on total scale	"sea_water_pH_reported_on_total_scale is the measure of acidity of sea water, defined as the negative logarithm of the concentration of dissolved hydrogen ions plus bisulfate ions in a sea water medium; it can be measured or calculated; when measured the scale is defined according to a series of buffers prepared in artificial seawater containing bisulfate. The quantity may be written as pH(total) = -log([H+](free) + [HSO4-]). In ocean biogeochemistry models, a ""natural analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable of imposing preindustrial atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, even when the model as a whole may be subjected to varying forcings."
sea water ph reported on total scale	'sea_water_pH_reported_on_total_scale' is the measure of acidity of seawater, defined as the negative logarithm of the concentration of dissolved hydrogen ions plus bisulfate ions in a sea water medium; it can be measured or calculated; when measured the scale is defined according to a series of buffers prepared in artificial seawater containing bisulfate.  The quantity may be written as pH(total) = -log([H+](free) + [HSO4-]).
sea water potential density	Potential density is the density a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to a reference pressure, by default assumed to be sea level pressure. For sea water potential density, if 1000 kg m-3 is subtracted, the standard name sea_water_sigma_theta should be chosen instead.
sea water potential temperature	Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure.
sea water potential temperature at sea floor	Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure. The potential temperature at the sea floor is that adjacent to the ocean bottom, which would be the deepest grid cell in an ocean model.
sea water practical salinity	"Practical Salinity, S_P, is a determination of the salinity of sea water, based on its electrical conductance. The measured conductance, corrected for temperature and pressure, is compared to the conductance of a standard potassium chloride solution, producing a value on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78). This name should not be used to describe salinity observations made before 1978, or ones not based on conductance measurements. Conversion of Practical Salinity to other precisely defined salinity measures should use the appropriate formulas specified by TEOS-10. Other standard names for precisely defined salinity quantities are sea_water_absolute_salinity (S_A); sea_water_preformed_salinity (S_*),  sea_water_reference_salinity (S_R); sea_water_cox_salinity (S_C),  used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977; and sea_water_knudsen_salinity (S_K), used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions shoul
 d be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Lewis, 1980 doi:10.1109/JOE.1980.1145448."
sea water preformed salinity	Preformed Salinity, S*, is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Preformed Salinity is a salinity variable that is designed to be as conservative as possible, by removing the estimated biogeochemical influences on the sea water composition. Preformed Salinity is Absolute Salinity, S_A (which has the standard name sea_water_absolute_salinity), minus all contributions to sea water composition from biogeochemical processes. Preformed Salinity is the mass fraction of dissolved material in sea water. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Pawlowicz et al., 2011 doi: 10.5194/os-7-363-2011; Wright et al., 2011 doi: 10.5194/os-7-1-2011. There are also standard names for the precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 onwards), and sea_water_reference_salinity. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions should be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity.
sea water pressure	"""Sea water pressure"" is the pressure that exists in the medium of sea water.  It includes the pressure due to overlying sea water, sea ice, air and any other medium that may be present. For sea water pressure excluding the pressure due to overlying media other than sea water, the standard name sea_water_pressure_due_to_sea_water should be used."
sea water pressure at sea floor	"""Sea water pressure"" is the pressure that exists in the medium of sea water.  It includes the pressure due to overlying sea water, sea ice, air and any other medium that may be present."
sea water pressure at sea water surface	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  ""Sea water pressure"" is the pressure that exists in the medium of sea water.  It includes the pressure due to overlying sea water, sea ice, air and any other medium that may be present."
sea water pressure due to sea water	The pressure that exists in the medium of sea water due to overlying sea water. Excludes the pressure due to sea ice, air and any other medium that may be present. For sea water pressure including the pressure due to overlying media other than sea water, the standard name sea_water_pressure should be used.
sea water reference salinity	If a sea water sample has the Reference Composition (defined in Millero et al., 2008), then its Reference Salinity is the best available estimate of its Absolute Salinity. For general purposes, Reference Salinity is (35.16504 g kg-1)/35 times Practical Salinity. Reference: www.teos-10.org; Millero et al., 2008 doi: 10.1016/j.dsr.2007.10.001. There are also standard names for the precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity (used for salinity observations from 1978 onwards), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, and sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*. Salinity quantities that do not match any of the precise definitions should be given the more general standard name of sea_water_salinity.
sea water salinity	"Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and the units attribute should normally be given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966),  sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
sea water salinity at sea floor	"The salinity at the sea floor is that adjacent to the ocean bottom, which would be the deepest grid cell in an ocean model. Sea water salinity is the salt concentration of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and the units attribute should normally be given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. Practical salinity units are dimensionless. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
sea water sigma t	Sigma-t of sea water is the density of water at atmospheric pressure (i.e. the surface) having the same temperature and salinity, minus 1000 kg m-3. Note that sea water sigma is not the same quantity as the dimensionless ocean sigma coordinate (see Appendix D of the CF convention), for which there is another standard name.
sea water sigma theta	Sigma-theta of sea water is the potential density (i.e. the density when moved adiabatically to a reference pressure) of water having the same temperature and salinity, minus 1000 kg m-3. Note that sea water sigma is not the same quantity as the dimensionless ocean sigma coordinate (see Appendix D of the CF convention), for which there is another standard name.
sea water specific potential enthalpy	"The potential enthalpy of a sea water parcel is the specific enthalpy after an adiabatic and isohaline change in pressure from its in situ pressure to the sea pressure p = 0 dbar. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2."
sea water speed	Speed is the magnitude of velocity.
sea water temperature	"Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. To specify the depth at which the temperature applies use a vertical coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable. There are standard names for sea_surface_temperature, sea_surface_skin_temperature, sea_surface_subskin_temperature and sea_surface_foundation_temperature which can be used to describe data located at the specified surfaces. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
sea water to direction	"The phrase ""to_direction"" is used in the construction X_to_direction and indicates the direction towards which the velocity vector of X is headed. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
sea water transport across line	Transport across_line means that which crosses a particular line on the Earth's surface; formally this means the integral along the line of the normal component of the transport.
sea water turbidity	Turbidity is a dimensionless quantity which is expressed in NTU (Nephelometric Turbidity Units). Turbidity expressed in NTU is the proportion of white light scattered back to a transceiver by the particulate load in a body of water, represented on an arbitrary scale referenced against measurements made in the laboratory on aqueous suspensions of formazine beads. Sea water turbidity may also be measured by the quantity with standard name secchi_depth_of_sea_water.
sea water volume	"The quantity with standard name ""sea_water_volume"" is the total volume of liquid seawater in the global oceans, including enclosed seas."
sea water x velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x."
sea water x velocity due to parameterized mesoscale eddies	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddies occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddies are represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. sea_water_x_velocity_due_to_parameterized_mesoscale_eddies is used in some parameterisations of lateral diffusion in the ocean."
sea water y velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y."
sea water y velocity due to parameterized mesoscale eddies	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddies occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddies are represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. sea_water_y_velocity_due_to_parameterized_mesoscale_eddies is used in some parameterisations of lateral diffusion in the ocean."
secchi depth of sea water	Depth is the vertical distance below the surface. A Secchi disk is a patterned disk that is used to measure water transparency, also called turbidity, in oceans and lakes. The disk is lowered into the water and the depth at which the pattern is no longer visible is the called the secchi depth. Sea water turbidity may also be measured by the quantity with standard name sea_water_turbidity.
sensor azimuth angle	"sensor_azimuth_angle is the horizontal angle between the line of sight from the observation point to the sensor and a reference direction at the observation point, which is often due north. The angle is measured clockwise positive, starting from the reference direction. A comment attribute should be added to a data variable with this standard name to specify the reference direction. A standard name also exists for platform_azimuth_angle, where ""platform"" refers to the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship, or satellite. For some viewing geometries the sensor and the platform cannot be assumed to be close enough to neglect the difference in calculated azimuth angle."
sensor band central radiation frequency	sensor_band_central_radiation_frequency is the central frequency of a sensor's band, calculated as the first moment of the band's normalized spectral response function.
sensor band central radiation wavelength	sensor_band_central_radiation_wavelength is the central wavelength of a sensor's band, calculated as the first moment of the band's normalized spectral response function.
sensor band central radiation wavenumber	sensor_band_central_radiation_wavenumber is the central wavenumber of a sensor's band, calculated as the first moment of the band's normalized spectral response function.
sensor band identifier	A variable with the standard name of sensor_band_identifier contains strings which give the alphanumeric identifier of a sensor band. These strings have not yet been standardised.
sensor view angle	"Sensor view angle is the angle between the line of sight from the sensor and the direction straight vertically down. Zero view angle means looking directly beneath the sensor. There is no standardized sign convention for sensor_view_angle. A standard name also exists for platform_view_angle, where ""platform"" refers to the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship, or satellite. For some viewing geometries the sensor and the platform cannot be assumed to be close enough to neglect the difference in calculated view angle."
sensor zenith angle	"sensor_zenith_angle is the angle between the line of sight to the sensor and the local zenith at the observation target. This angle is measured starting from directly overhead and its range is from zero (directly overhead the observation target) to 180 degrees (directly below the observation target). Local zenith is a line perpendicular to the Earth's surface at a given location. ""Observation target"" means a location on the Earth defined by the sensor performing the observations.  A standard name also exists for platform_zenith_angle, where ""platform"" refers to the vehicle from which observations are made e.g. aeroplane, ship, or satellite. For some viewing geometries the sensor and the platform cannot be assumed to be close enough to neglect the difference in calculated zenith angle."
shallow convection time fraction	"""Time fraction"" means a fraction of a time interval. The interval in question must be specified by the values or bounds of the time coordinate variable associated with the data. ""X_time_fraction"" means the fraction of the time interval during which X occurs."
shallow convective precipitation flux	"Convective precipitation is that produced by the convection schemes in an atmosphere model. Some atmosphere models differentiate between shallow and deep convection. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
single scattering albedo in air due to ambient aerosol particles	"""Single scattering albedo"" is the fraction of radiation in an incident light beam scattered by the particles of an aerosol reference volume for a given wavelength. It is the ratio of the scattering and the extinction coefficients of the aerosol particles in the reference volume. A coordinate variable with a standard name of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency should be included to specify either the wavelength or frequency. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity and temperature at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide scalar coordinate variables with standard names of ""relative_humidity"" and ""air_temperature"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
sinking mole flux of aragonite expressed as carbon in sea water	"The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.   'Sinking' is the gravitational settling of particulate matter suspended in a liquid. A sinking flux is positive downwards and is calculated relative to the movement of the surrounding fluid. Aragonite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of aragonite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for calcite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
sinking mole flux of calcite expressed as carbon in sea water	"The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.   'Sinking' is the gravitational settling of particulate matter suspended in a liquid. A sinking flux is positive downwards and is calculated relative to the movement of the surrounding fluid. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
sinking mole flux of particulate iron in sea water	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.   'Sinking' is the gravitational settling of particulate matter suspended in a liquid. A sinking flux is positive downwards and is calculated relative to the movement of the surrounding fluid."
sinking mole flux of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water	"The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.   'Sinking' is the gravitational settling of particulate matter suspended in a liquid. A sinking flux is positive downwards and is calculated relative to the movement of the surrounding fluid."
sinking mole flux of particulate organic nitrogen in sea water	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.   'Sinking' is the gravitational settling of particulate matter suspended in a liquid. A sinking flux is positive downwards and is calculated relative to the movement of the surrounding fluid."
sinking mole flux of particulate organic phosphorus in sea water	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.   'Sinking' is the gravitational settling of particulate matter suspended in a liquid. A sinking flux is positive downwards and is calculated relative to the movement of the surrounding fluid."
sinking mole flux of particulate silicon in sea water	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.   'Sinking' is the gravitational settling of particulate matter suspended in a liquid. A sinking flux is positive downwards and is calculated relative to the movement of the surrounding fluid."
slow soil pool carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""soil content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface down to the bottom of the soil model. For the content between specified levels in the soil, standard names including content_of_soil_layer are used.  ""Soil carbon"" is the organic matter present in soil quantified by the mass of carbon it contains. Soil carbon is returned to the atmosphere as the organic matter decays. The decay process takes varying amounts of time depending on the composition of the organic matter, the temperature and the availability of moisture. A carbon ""soil pool"" means the carbon contained in organic matter which has a characteristic period over which it decays and releases carbon into the atmosphere. ""Slow soil pool"" refers to the decay of organic matter in soil with a characteristic period of more than a hundred years under reference climate conditions of a temperature of 20 degrees Celsius and no water limitations."
snowfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
snowfall flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
soil albedo	Soil albedo is the albedo of the soil surface assuming no snow.
soil carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""soil content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface down to the bottom of the soil model. For the content between specified levels in the soil, standard names including content_of_soil_layer are used."
soil frozen water content	"""frozen_water"" means ice. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""soil content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface down to the bottom of the soil model. For the content between specified levels in the soil, standard names including content_of_soil_layer are used."
soil hydraulic conductivity at saturation	Hydraulic conductivity is the constant k in Darcy's Law q=-k grad h for fluid flow q (volume transport per unit area i.e. velocity) through a porous medium, where h is the hydraulic head (pressure expressed as an equivalent depth of water).
soil moisture content at field capacity	"""moisture"" means water in all phases contained in soil. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""soil content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface down to the bottom of the soil model. For the content between specified levels in the soil, standard names including content_of_soil_layer are used. The field capacity of soil is the maximum content of water it can retain against gravitational drainage."
soil porosity	The soil porosity is the proportion of its total volume not occupied by soil solids.
soil respiration carbon flux	"""Respiration carbon"" refers to the rate at which biomass is respired expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Soil respiration is the sum of respiration in the soil by animals and decomposers of litter (heterotrophs or ""consumers""), which have not produced the biomass they respire, and respiration by the roots of plants (autotrophs or ""producers""), which have themselves produced the biomass they respire. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
soil suction at saturation	Soil suction is the tensile stress on water in soil due to molecular forces acting at the water-soil particle boundary. The forces may cause water to be drawn into the spaces within the soil matrix or cause it to be held in the soil without draining. Soil suction occurs in soil above the water table.
soil temperature	Soil temperature is the bulk temperature of the soil, not the surface (skin) temperature.
soil thermal capacity	Thermal capacity, or heat capacity, is the amount of heat energy required to increase the temperature of 1 kg of material by 1 K. It is a property of the material.
soil thermal conductivity	Thermal conductivity is the constant k in the formula q = -k grad T where q is the heat transfer per unit time per unit area of a surface normal to the direction of transfer and grad T is the temperature gradient. Thermal conductivity is a property of the material.
soil type	A variable with the standard name of soil_type contains strings which indicate the character of the soil e.g. clay. These strings have not yet been standardised. Alternatively, the data variable may contain integers which can be translated to strings using flag_values and flag_meanings attributes.
solar azimuth angle	Solar azimuth angle is the horizontal angle between the line of sight to the sun and a reference direction which is often due north. The angle is measured clockwise.
solar elevation angle	Solar elevation angle is the angle between the line of sight to the sun and the local horizontal.
solar irradiance	"The quantity with standard name solar_irradiance, often called Total Solar Irradiance (TSI), is the radiation from the sun integrated over the whole electromagnetic spectrum and over the entire solar disk. The quantity applies outside the atmosphere, by default at a distance of one astronomical unit from the sun, but a coordinate or scalar coordinate variable of distance_from_sun can be used to specify a value other than the default. ""Irradiance"" means the power per unit area (called radiative flux in other standard names), the area being normal to the direction of flow of the radiant energy."
solar irradiance per unit wavelength	"The quantity with standard name solar_irradiance_per_unit_wavelength, often called Solar Spectral Irradiance (SSI), is the radiation from the sun as a function of wavelength integrated over the entire solar disk. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength. The quantity applies outside the atmosphere, by default at a distance of one astronomical unit from the sun, but a coordinate or scalar coordinate variable of distance_from_sun can be used to specify a value other than the default. ""Irradiance"" means the power per unit area (called radiative flux in other standard names), the area being normal to the direction of flow of the radiant energy."
solar zenith angle	Solar zenith angle is the the angle between the line of sight to the sun and the local vertical.
soot content of surface snow	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
sound frequency	Frequency is the number of oscillations of a wave per unit time.
sound intensity in air	Sound intensity is the sound energy per unit time per unit area.
sound intensity in water	Sound intensity is the sound energy per unit time per unit area.
sound intensity level in air	Sound intensity is the sound energy per unit time per unit area. Sound intensity level in air is expressed on a logarithmic scale with reference to a sound intensity of 1e-12 W m-2. LI = 10 log10(I/I0) where LI is sound intensity level, I is sound intensity and I0 is the reference sound intensity.
sound intensity level in water	Sound intensity is the sound energy per unit time per unit area. Sound intensity level in water is expressed on a logarithmic scale with reference to a sound intensity of 6.7e-19 W m-2. LI = 10 log10(I/I0) where LI is sound intensity level, I is sound intensity and I0 is the reference sound intensity.
sound pressure in air	Sound pressure is the difference from the local ambient pressure caused by a sound wave at a particular location and time.
sound pressure in water	Sound pressure is the difference from the local ambient pressure caused by a sound wave at a particular location and time.
sound pressure level in air	Sound pressure is the difference from the local ambient pressure caused by a sound wave at a particular location and time. Sound pressure level in air is expressed on a logarithmic scale with reference to a sound pressure of 2e-5 Pa. Lp = 20 log10(p/p0) where Lp is the sound pressure level, p is the rms sound pressure and p0 is the reference sound pressure.
sound pressure level in water	Sound pressure is the difference from the local ambient pressure caused by a sound wave at a particular location and time. Sound pressure level in water is expressed on a logarithmic scale with reference to a sound pressure of 1e-6 Pa. Lp = 20 log10(p/p0) where Lp is the sound pressure level, p is the rms sound pressure and p0 is the reference sound pressure.
source	"An auxiliary coordinate variable with a standard name of source contains string values which describe the method of production of the original data with which the coordinate variable is associated. If the data were model-generated, source should name the model and its version, as specifically as could be useful. If the data are observational, source should characterize them (e.g., ""surface observation"", ""radiosonde""). The use of source as the standard name for an auxiliary coordinate variable permits the aggregation of data from multiple sources within a single data file."
specific dry energy of air	"""specific"" means per unit mass. Dry energy is the sum of dry static energy and kinetic energy. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
specific gravitational potential energy	"""specific"" means per unit mass. Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)"
specific heat capacity of sea water	The specific heat capacity of sea water, Cp(ocean), is used in ocean models to convert between model prognostic temperature (potential or conservative temperature) and model heat content.
specific humidity	"""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
specific kinetic energy of air	"""specific"" means per unit mass."
specific kinetic energy of sea water	"""specific"" means per unit mass."
specific turbulent kinetic energy dissipation in sea water	"""Specific"" means per unit mass. ""Turbulent kinetic energy"" is the kinetic energy of chaotic fluctuations of the fluid flow. The dissipation of kinetic energy arises in ocean models as a result of the viscosity of sea water."
specific turbulent kinetic energy of sea water	"""Specific"" means per unit mass. ""Turbulent kinetic energy"" is the kinetic energy of chaotic fluctuations of the fluid flow."
speed of sound in air	Speed is the magnitude of velocity.
speed of sound in sea water	Speed is the magnitude of velocity.
spell length of days with air temperature above threshold	"Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.  A spell is the number of consecutive days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisified.  A variable whose standard name has the form spell_length_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_method entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A spell_length_of_days is an intensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days can be any of the methods listed in Appendix E appropriate for intensive quantities e.g. ""maximum"", ""minimum"" or ""mean""."
spell length of days with air temperature below threshold	"Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.  A spell is the number of consecutive days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisified.  A variable whose standard name has the form spell_length_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_method entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A spell_length_of_days is an intensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days can be any of the methods listed in Appendix E appropriate for intensive quantities e.g. ""maximum"", ""minimum"" or ""mean""."
spell length of days with lwe thickness of precipitation amount above threshold	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area.  ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent.  A spell is the number of consecutive days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisified.  A variable whose standard name has the form spell_length_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_method entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A spell_length_of_days is an intensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days can be any of the methods listed in Appendix E appropriate for intensive quantities e.g. ""maximum"", ""minimum"" or ""mean""."
spell length of days with lwe thickness of precipitation amount below threshold	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The construction lwe_thickness_of_X_amount or _content means the vertical extent of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area.  ""lwe"" means liquid water equivalent.  A spell is the number of consecutive days on which the condition X_below|above_threshold is satisified.  A variable whose standard name has the form spell_length_of_days_with_X_below|above_threshold must have a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the a standard name of X to supply the threshold(s). It must have a climatological time variable, and a cell_method entry for within days which describes the processing of quantity X before the threshold is applied. A spell_length_of_days is an intensive quantity in time, and the cell_methods entry for over days can be any of the methods listed in Appendix E appropriate for intensive quantities e.g. ""maximum"", ""minimum"" or ""mean""."
square of air temperature	"""square_of_X"" means X*X. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
square of brunt vaisala frequency in air	"The phrase ""square_of_X"" means X*X. Frequency is the number of oscillations of a wave per unit time. Brunt-Vaisala frequency is also sometimes called ""buoyancy frequency"" and is a measure of the vertical stratification of the medium."
square of brunt vaisala frequency in sea water	"The phrase ""square_of_X"" means X*X. Frequency is the number of oscillations of a wave per unit time. Brunt-Vaisala frequency is also sometimes called ""buoyancy frequency"" and is a measure of the vertical stratification of the medium."
square of eastward wind	"""square_of_X"" means X*X. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
square of geopotential height	"""square_of_X"" means X*X. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. Geopotential height is the geopotential divided by the standard acceleration due to gravity. It is numerically similar to the altitude (or geometric height) and not to the quantity with standard name height, which is relative to the surface."
square of lagrangian tendency of air pressure	"The phrase ""square_of_X"" means X*X. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The Lagrangian tendency of a quantity is its rate of change following the motion of the fluid, also called the ""material derivative"" or ""convective derivative"". The Lagrangian tendency of air pressure, often called ""omega"", plays the role of the upward component of air velocity when air pressure is being used as the vertical coordinate. If the vertical air velocity is upwards, it is negative when expressed as a tendency of air pressure; downwards is positive. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
square of northward wind	"""square_of_X"" means X*X. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
square of ocean mixed layer thickness defined by sigma t	"The ocean mixed layer is the upper part of the ocean, regarded as being well-mixed.  The base of the mixed layer defined by temperature, sigma, sigma_theta or sigma_t is the level at which the quantity indicated differs from its surface value by a certain amount.  ""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer.  ""square_of_X"" means X*X."
square of sea surface height above geoid	"The phrase ""square_of_X"" means X*X. ""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. ""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean). In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention. By definition of the geoid, the global average of the time-mean sea surface height (i.e. mean sea level) above the geoid must be zero."
square of sea surface temperature	"Sea surface temperature is usually abbreviated as ""SST"". It is the temperature of sea water near the surface (including the part under sea-ice, if any), and not the skin temperature, whose standard name is surface_temperature. For the temperature of sea water at a particular depth or layer, a data variable of sea_water_temperature with a vertical coordinate axis should be used.  ""square_of_X"" means X*X."
square of upward air velocity	"""square_of_X"" means X*X. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Upward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector."
square of upward ocean mass transport	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  Ocean transport means transport by all processes, both sea water and sea ice.  ""square_of_X"" means X*X."
status flag	A variable with the standard name of status_flag contains an indication of quality or other status of another data variable. The linkage between the data variable and the variable with the standard_name of status_flag is achieved using the ancillary_variables attribute.
steric change in mean sea level	"Steric sea level change is caused by changes in sea water density due to changes in temperature (thermosteric) and salinity (halosteric). ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. Zero mean sea level change is an arbitrary level. The sum of the quantities with standard names thermosteric_change_in_mean_sea_level and halosteric_change_in_mean_sea_level has the standard name steric_change_in_mean_sea_level."
steric change in sea surface height	"""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. The steric change in sea surface height is the change in height that a water column of standard temperature zero degrees Celsius and practical salinity S=35.0 would undergo when its temperature and salinity are changed to the observed values. The sum of the quantities with standard names thermosteric_change_in_sea_surface_height and halosteric_change_in_sea_surface_height is the total steric change in the water column height, which has the standard name of steric_change_in_sea_surface_height. The sum of the quantities with standard names sea_water_mass_per_unit_area_expressed_as_thickness and steric_change_in_sea_surface_height is the total thickness of the sea water column."
stratiform cloud area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X.  Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"".  The cloud area fraction is for the whole atmosphere column, as seen from the surface or the top of the atmosphere. The cloud area fraction in a layer of the atmosphere has the standard name cloud_area_fraction_in_atmosphere_layer.  In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes)."
stratiform cloud area fraction in atmosphere layer	"""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. Cloud area fraction is also called ""cloud amount"" and ""cloud cover"". In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes)."
stratiform cloud longwave emissivity	"Emissivity is the ratio of the power emitted by an object to the power that would be emitted by a perfect black body having the same temperature as the object. The emissivity is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency is included to specify either the wavelength or frequency. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  ""longwave"" means longwave radiation."
stratiform graupel flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud."
stratiform precipitation amount	"Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud.  ""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
stratiform precipitation flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud."
stratiform rainfall amount	"Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud.  ""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
stratiform rainfall flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud."
stratiform rainfall rate	Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud.
stratiform snowfall amount	"Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud.  ""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
stratiform snowfall flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud."
stratosphere mole content of nitrogen dioxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""stratosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the tropopause to the stratopause. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for nitrogen_dioxide is NO2."
subsurface litter carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Litter carbon"" is dead plant material in or above the soil quantified as the mass of carbon which it contains.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
subsurface runoff amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage."
subsurface runoff flux	"Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
sunglint angle	The angle between an incident beam of solar radiation and the outgoing beam specularly reflected at a sea surface.
sunlit binary mask	X_binary_mask has 1 where condition X is met, 0 elsewhere.
surface air pressure	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
surface albedo	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface albedo assuming deep snow	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition."
surface albedo assuming no snow	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition."
surface altitude	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level."
surface backwards scattering coefficient of radar wave	The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength. Scattering of radiation is its deflection from its incident path without loss of energy. Backwards scattering refers to the sum of scattering into all backward angles i.e. scattering_angle exceeding pi/2 radians. A scattering_angle should not be specified with this quantity.
surface bidirectional reflectance	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Bidirectional_reflectance"" depends on the angles of incident and measured radiation. Reflectance is the ratio of the energy of the reflected to the incident radiation. A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be used to specify the wavelength or frequency, respectively, of the radiation."
surface brightness temperature	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.The brightness temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area."
surface carbon dioxide abiotic analogue partial pressure difference between sea water and air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. In ocean biogeochemistry models, an ""abiotic analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable when biological effects on ocean carbon concentration and alkalinity are ignored. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume. The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium. The partial pressure difference between sea water and air is positive when the partial pressure of the dissolved gas in sea water is greater than the partial pressure in air."
surface carbon dioxide natural analogue partial pressure difference between sea water and air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. In ocean biogeochemistry models, a ""natural analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable of imposing preindustrial atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, even when the model as a whole may be subjected to varying forcings. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume. The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium. The partial pressure difference between sea water and air is positive when the partial pressure of the dissolved gas in sea water is greater than the partial pressure in air."
surface carbon dioxide partial pressure difference between air and sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume."
surface carbon dioxide partial pressure difference between sea water and air	"The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium.  The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface diffuse downwelling photosynthetic radiative flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. ""Diffuse"" radiation is radiation that has been scattered by particles in the atmosphere such as cloud droplets and aerosols. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface diffuse downwelling shortwave flux in air	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"".  ""Diffuse"" radiation is radiation that has been scattered by particles in the atmosphere such as cloud droplets and aerosols. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"".  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
surface diffuse downwelling shortwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". ""Diffuse"" radiation is radiation that has been scattered by particles in the atmosphere such as cloud droplets and aerosols. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called  ""flux density"" in physics. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase ""assuming_condition"" indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
surface direct downwelling shortwave flux in air	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Direct"" (also known as ""beam"") radiation is radiation that has followed a direct path from the sun and is alternatively known as ""direct insolation"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
surface downward eastward stress	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). ""Downward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor. A downward eastward stress is a downward flux of eastward momentum, which accelerates the lower medium eastward and the upper medium westward. The surface downward stress is the windstress on the surface."
surface downward heat flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The vertical heat flux in air is the sum of all heat fluxes i.e. radiative, latent and sensible. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downward heat flux in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downward heat flux in snow	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface downward latent heat flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The surface latent heat flux is the exchange of heat between the surface and the air on account of evaporation (including sublimation). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downward mass flux of ammonia	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3."
surface downward mass flux of carbon13 dioxide abiotic analogue expressed as carbon13	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. In ocean biogeochemistry models, an ""abiotic analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable when biological effects on ocean carbon concentration and alkalinity are ignored. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Carbon13 is a stable isotope of carbon having six protons and seven neutrons."
surface downward mass flux of carbon14 dioxide abiotic analogue expressed as carbon	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. In ocean biogeochemistry models, an ""abiotic analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable when biological effects on ocean carbon concentration and alkalinity are ignored. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. Carbon14 is a radioactive isotope of carbon having six protons and eight neutrons, used in radiocarbon dating."
surface downward mass flux of carbon dioxide abiotic analogue expressed as carbon	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. In ocean biogeochemistry models, an ""abiotic analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable when biological effects on ocean carbon concentration and alkalinity are ignored. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface downward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface downward mass flux of carbon dioxide natural analogue expressed as carbon	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. In ocean biogeochemistry models, a ""natural analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable of imposing preindustrial atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, even when the model as a whole may be subjected to varying forcings. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface downward mass flux of water due to irrigation	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Irrigation"" includes water used to sustain crops, trees, pastures and urban lawns."
surface downward mole flux of carbon dioxide	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. The standard name surface_upward_mole_flux_of_carbon_dioxide should be used to label data in which the flux is positive when directed upward. The standard name ""surface_carbon_dioxide_mole_flux"" is deprecated because it does not specify in which direction the flux is positive.  Any data having the standard name ""surface_carbon_dioxide_mole_flux"" should be examined carefully to determine which sign convention was used."
surface downward mole flux of cfc11	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane."
surface downward mole flux of cfc12	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The chemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2. The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane."
surface downward mole flux of molecular oxygen	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface downward mole flux of sulfur hexafluoride	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The chemical formula of sulfur hexafluoride is SF6."
surface downward northward stress	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). ""Downward northward"" indicates the ZY component of a tensor. A downward northward stress is a downward flux of northward momentum, which accelerates the lower medium northward and the upper medium southward. The surface downward stress is the windstress on the surface."
surface downward sensible heat flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The surface sensible heat flux, also called ""turbulent"" heat flux, is the exchange of heat between the surface and the air by motion of air. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downward water flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The surface water flux is the result of precipitation and evaporation. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downward x stress	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward)."
surface downward x stress correction	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A downward x stress is a downward flux of momentum towards the positive direction of the model's x-axis."
surface downward y stress	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward)."
surface downward y stress correction	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A downward y stress is a downward flux of momentum towards the positive direction of the model's y-axis."
surface downwelling longwave flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling longwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling photon flux in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling photon flux per unit wavelength in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface downwelling photon radiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon radiance is the photon flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
surface downwelling photon radiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon radiance is the photon flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface downwelling photon spherical irradiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon spherical irradiance is the photon flux incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
surface downwelling photon spherical irradiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon spherical irradiance is the photon flux incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface downwelling photosynthetic photon flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling photosynthetic photon flux in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling photosynthetic photon radiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Photon radiance is the photon flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
surface downwelling photosynthetic photon spherical irradiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. Photon spherical irradiance is the photon flux incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. The direction (""up/downwelling"") is specified. Radiation incident on a 4-pi collector has standard names of ""omnidirectional spherical irradiance"". A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles."
surface downwelling photosynthetic radiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling photosynthetic radiative flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling photosynthetic radiative flux in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling photosynthetic spherical irradiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. Spherical irradiance is the radiation incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. It is sometimes called ""scalar irradiance"". The direction (up/downwelling) is specified. Radiation incident on a 4-pi collector has standard names of ""omnidirectional spherical irradiance""."
surface downwelling radiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
surface downwelling radiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction from which it is coming must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface downwelling radiative flux in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling radiative flux per unit wavelength in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface downwelling radiative flux per unit wavelength in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface downwelling shortwave flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Surface downwelling shortwave is the sum of direct and diffuse solar radiation incident on the surface, and is sometimes called ""global radiation"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling shortwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Surface downwelling shortwave is the sum of direct and diffuse solar radiation incident on the surface, and is sometimes called ""global radiation"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface downwelling spherical irradiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Spherical irradiance is the radiation incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. It is sometimes called ""scalar irradiance"". The direction (up/downwelling) is specified. Radiation incident on a 4-pi collector has standard names of ""omnidirectional spherical irradiance""."
surface downwelling spherical irradiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Spherical irradiance is the radiation incident on unit area of a hemispherical (or ""2-pi"") collector. It is sometimes called ""scalar irradiance"". The direction (up/downwelling) is specified. Radiation incident on a 4-pi collector has standard names of ""omnidirectional spherical irradiance"". A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface drag coefficient for heat in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface drag coefficient for momentum in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface drag coefficient in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface eastward sea water velocity	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward)."
surface frozen carbon dioxide amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. Frozen carbon dioxide is found on the surface of Mars."
surface geopotential	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy."
surface geostrophic eastward sea water velocity	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars. The quantity with standard name surface_geostrophic_eastward_sea_water_velocity is the sum of a variable part, surface_geostrophic_eastward_sea_water_velocity_assuming_mean_sea_level_for_geoid, and a constant part due to the stationary component of ocean circulation."
surface geostrophic eastward sea water velocity assuming mean sea level for geoid	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean.) In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. The quantity with standard name surface_geostrophic_eastward_sea_water_velocity_assuming_mean_sea_level_for_geoid is the variable part of surface_geostrophic_eastward_sea_water_velocity. The assumption that sea level is equal to the geoid means that the stationary component of ocean circulation is equal to zero."
surface geostrophic northward sea water velocity	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars. The quantity with standard name surface_geostrophic_northward_sea_water_velocity is the sum of a variable part, surface_geostrophic_northward_sea_water_velocity_assuming_mean_sea_level_for_geoid, and a constant part due to the stationary component of ocean circulation."
surface geostrophic northward sea water velocity assuming mean sea level for geoid	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean.) In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. The quantity with standard name surface_geostrophic_northward_sea_water_velocity_assuming_mean_sea_level_for_geoid is the variable part of surface_geostrophic_northward_sea_water_velocity. The assumption that sea level is equal to the geoid means that the stationary component of ocean circulation is equal to zero."
surface geostrophic sea water x velocity	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars. The quantity with standard name surface_geostrophic_sea_water_x_velocity is the sum of a variable part, surface_geostrophic_sea_water_x_velocity_assuming_mean_sea_level_for_geoid, and a constant part due to the stationary component of ocean circulation."
surface geostrophic sea water x velocity assuming mean sea level for geoid	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean.) In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. The quantity with standard name surface_geostrophic_sea_water_x_velocity_assuming_mean_sea_level_for_geoid is the variable part of surface_geostrophic_sea_water_x_velocity. The assumption that sea level is equal to the geoid means that the stationary component of ocean circulation is equal to zero."
surface geostrophic sea water y velocity	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars. The quantity with standard name surface_geostrophic_sea_water_y_velocity is the sum of a variable part, surface_geostrophic_sea_water_y_velocity_assuming_mean_sea_level_for_geoid, and a constant part due to the stationary component of ocean circulation."
surface geostrophic sea water y velocity assuming mean sea level for geoid	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Geostrophic"" indicates that geostrophic balance is assumed, i.e. that the pressure gradient force and the Coriolis force are balanced and the large scale fluid flow is parallel to the isobars. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. The geoid is a surface of constant geopotential with which mean sea level would coincide if the ocean were at rest. (The volume enclosed between the geoid and the sea floor equals the mean volume of water in the ocean). In an ocean GCM the geoid is the surface of zero depth, or the rigid lid if the model uses that approximation. The quantity with standard name surface_geostrophic_sea_water_y_velocity_assuming_mean_sea_level_for_geoid is the variable part of surface_geostrophic_sea_water_y_velocity. The assumption that sea level is equal to the geoid means that the stationary component of ocean circulation is equal to zero."
surface height above geopotential datum	"""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The ""geopotential datum"" is any estimated surface of constant geopotential used as a datum i.e. a reference level; for the geoid as a datum, specific standard names are available. To specify which geoid or geopotential datum is being used as a reference level, a grid_mapping variable should be attached to the data variable as described in Chapter 5.6 of the CF Convention."
surface litter carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Litter carbon"" is dead plant material in or above the soil quantified as the mass of carbon which it contains.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface longwave emissivity	"Emissivity is the ratio of the power emitted by an object to the power that would be emitted by a perfect black body having the same temperature as the object. The emissivity is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency is included to specify either the wavelength or frequency. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  ""longwave"" means longwave radiation."
surface microwave emissivity	"Emissivity is the ratio of the power emitted by an object to the power that would be emitted by a perfect black body having the same temperature as the object. The emissivity is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency is included to specify either the wavelength or frequency. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface molecular oxygen partial pressure difference between sea water and air	"The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium.  The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface net downward longwave flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface net downward longwave flux assuming clear sky	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface net downward mass flux of ammonia due to bidirectional surface exchange	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward mass flux is the difference between downward_mass_flux and upward_mass_flux. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Bidirectional surface exchange"" is the exchange of a chemical species between the atmosphere and biosphere as simulated by bidirectional surface flux models. It refers to exchange through stomata and soil surfaces and is the net result of emission and dry deposition. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3."
surface net downward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to all land processes	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""All land processes"" means plant and soil respiration, photosynthesis, animal grazing, crop harvesting, natural fires and anthropogenic land use change. ""Anthropogenic land use change"" means human changes to land, excluding forest regrowth. It includes fires ignited by humans for the purpose of land use change and the processes of eventual disposal and decomposition of wood products such as paper, cardboard, furniture and timber for construction. The quantity with standard name surface_net_downward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_all_land_processes is  equal to the difference  between the quantities with standard names surface_net_downward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_all_land_processes_excluding_anthropogenic_land_use_change and surface_net_upward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_emission_from_anthropogenic_land_use_change. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface net downward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to all land processes excluding anthropogenic land use change	"""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""All land processes"" means plant and soil respiration, photosynthesis, animal grazing, crop harvesting, natural fires and anthropogenic land use change. ""Anthropogenic land use change"" means human changes to land, excluding forest regrowth. It includes fires ignited by humans for the purpose of land use change and the processes of eventual disposal and decomposition of wood products such as paper, cardboard, furniture and timber for construction. The quantity with standard name surface_net_downward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_all_land_processes is  equal to the difference  between the quantities with standard names surface_net_downward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_all_land_processes_excluding_anthropogenic_land_use_change and surface_net_upward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_emission_from_anthropogenic_land_use_change. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface net downward radiative flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. Unless indicated in the cell_methods attribute, a quantity is assumed to apply to the whole area of each horizontal grid box. Previously, the qualifier where_type was used to specify that the quantity applies only to the part of the grid box of the named type.  Names containing the where_type qualifier are deprecated and newly created data should use the cell_methods attribute to indicate the horizontal area to which the quantity applies."
surface net downward shortwave flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface net downward shortwave flux assuming clear sky	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface net upward longwave flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface net upward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to emission from anthropogenic land use change	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Anthropogenic land use change"" means human changes to land, excluding forest regrowth. It includes fires ignited by humans for the purpose of land use change and the processes of eventual disposal and decomposition of wood products such as paper, cardboard, furniture and timber for construction. The quantity with standard name surface_net_downward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_all_land_processes is  equal to the difference  between the quantities with standard names surface_net_downward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_all_land_processes_excluding_anthropogenic_land_use_change and surface_net_upward_mass_flux_of_carbon_dioxide_expressed_as_carbon_due_to_emission_from_anthropogenic_land_use_change. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface net upward radiative flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface net upward shortwave flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface northward sea water velocity	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward)."
surface partial pressure of carbon dioxide abiotic analogue in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. In ocean biogeochemistry models, an ""abiotic analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable when biological effects on ocean carbon concentration and alkalinity are ignored. The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume."
surface partial pressure of carbon dioxide in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume."
surface partial pressure of carbon dioxide in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface partial pressure of carbon dioxide natural analogue in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. In ocean biogeochemistry models, a ""natural analogue"" is used to simulate the effect on a modelled variable of imposing preindustrial atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations, even when the model as a whole may be subjected to varying forcings. The partial pressure of a dissolved gas in sea water is the partial pressure in air with which it would be in equilibrium. The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume."
surface ratio of upwelling radiance emerging from sea water to downwelling radiative flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  ""ratio_of_X_to_Y""  means X/Y.  Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"".  Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"".    Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle.  The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of angle_of_emergence.  Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes.  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".   In relation to satellite ocean color products the quantity named surface_ratio_of_upwelling_radiance_emerging_from_sea_water_to_downwelling_radiative_flux_in_air is sometimes called ""remote sensing reflectance"" and has a  bidirectional dependence. The direction of the downwelling flux can be specified using a coordinate with the standard name angle_of_incidence."
surface roughness length	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface roughness length for heat in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface roughness length for momentum in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
surface runoff amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage."
surface runoff flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface snow amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Surface amount refers to the amount on the ground, excluding that on the plant or vegetation canopy."
surface snow and ice melt flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Surface snow and ice melt flux"" means the mass flux of all melting at the surface."
surface snow and ice melt heat flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The snow and ice melt heat flux is the supply of latent heat which is melting snow and ice at freezing point. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface snow and ice refreezing flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Surface snow and ice refreezing flux"" means the mass flux of surface  meltwater which refreezes within the snow or firn."
surface snow and ice sublimation flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Sublimation is the conversion of solid into vapor. The snow and ice sublimation  flux is the loss of snow and ice mass resulting from their conversion to water vapor. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface snow area fraction	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell."
surface snow binary mask	"X""_binary_mask"" has 1 where condition X is met, 0 elsewhere. The value is 1 where the snow cover area fraction is greater than a threshold, and 0 elsewhere. The threshold must be specified by associating a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the data variable and giving the coordinate variable a standard name of surface_snow_area_fraction. The values of the coordinate variable are the threshold values for the corresponding subarrays of the data variable."
surface snow melt amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
surface snow melt and sublimation heat flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Sublimation is the conversion of solid into vapor. The snow melt and sublimation heat flux is the supply of latent heat which converting snow to liquid water (melting) and water vapor (sublimation). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface snow melt flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface snow melt heat flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The snow melt heat flux is the supply of latent heat which is melting snow at freezing point. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface snow sublimation amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Sublimation is the conversion of solid into vapor."
surface snow sublimation heat flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Sublimation is the conversion of solid into vapor. The snow sublimation heat flux is the supply of latent heat which is causing evaporation of snow to water vapor. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface snow thickness	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Unless indicated in the cell_methods attribute, a quantity is assumed to apply to the whole area of each horizontal grid box. Previously, the qualifier where_type was used to specify that the quantity applies only to the part of the grid box of the named type.  Names containing the where_type qualifier are deprecated and newly created data should use the cell_methods attribute to indicate the horizontal area to which the quantity applies."
surface specific humidity	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
surface temperature	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The surface temperature is the temperature at the interface, not the bulk temperature of the medium above or below. Unless indicated in the cell_methods attribute, a quantity is assumed to apply to the whole area of each horizontal grid box. Previously, the qualifier where_type was used to specify that the quantity applies only to the part of the grid box of the named type.  Names containing the where_type qualifier are deprecated and newly created data should use the cell_methods attribute to indicate the horizontal area to which the quantity applies."
surface temperature anomaly	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""anomaly"" means difference from climatology. The surface temperature is the (skin) temperature at the interface, not the bulk temperature of the medium above or below."
surface upward carbon mass flux due to plant respiration for biomass growth	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  Plant respiration is the sum of respiration by parts of plants both above and below the soil. Plants which photosynthesise are autotrophs i.e.""producers"" of the biomass which they respire from inorganic precursors using sunlight for energy.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
surface upward carbon mass flux due to plant respiration for biomass maintenance	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  Plant respiration is the sum of respiration by parts of plants both above and below the soil. Plants which photosynthesise are autotrophs i.e.""producers"" of the biomass which they respire from inorganic precursors using sunlight for energy.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
surface upward heat flux due to anthropogenic energy consumption	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The vertical heat flux in air is the sum of all heat fluxes i.e. radiative, latent and sensible. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity. The heat flux due to anthropogenic energy consumption results from non-renewable human primary energy consumption, including energy use by vehicles, commercial and residential buildings, industry, and power plants. Primary energy refers to energy in natural resources, fossil and non-fossil, before conversion into other forms, such as electricity."
surface upward heat flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The vertical heat flux in air is the sum of all heat fluxes i.e. radiative, latent and sensible. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface upward latent heat flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The surface latent heat flux is the exchange of heat between the surface and the air on account of evaporation (including sublimation). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface upward mass flux of ammonia	"Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3."
surface upward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to anthropogenic land use or land cover change	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity.  ""Anthropogenic land use change"" means human changes to land, excluding forest regrowth. It includes fires ignited by humans for the purpose of land use change and the processes of eventual disposal and decomposition of wood products such as paper, cardboard, furniture and timber for construction."
surface upward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to emission from crop harvesting	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface upward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to emission from fires excluding anthropogenic land use change	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Fires excluding anthropogenic land use change"" means all natural fires and human ignited fires that are not associated with change of land use. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity."
surface upward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to emission from grazing	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface upward mass flux of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to emission from natural sources	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
surface upward mole flux of carbon dioxide	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. The standard name surface_downward_mole_flux_of_carbon_dioxide should be used to label data in which the flux is positive when directed downward. The standard name ""surface_carbon_dioxide_mole_flux"" is deprecated because it does not specify in which direction the flux is positive.  Any data having the standard name ""surface_carbon_dioxide_mole_flux"" should be examined carefully to determine which sign convention was used."
surface upward mole flux of dimethyl sulfide	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  Thechemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S.  Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referredto as DMS."
surface upward sensible heat flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The surface sensible heat flux, also called ""turbulent"" heat flux, is the exchange of heat between the surface and the air by motion of air. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. Unless indicated in the cell_methods attribute, a quantity is assumed to apply to the whole area of each horizontal grid box. Previously, the qualifier where_type was used to specify that the quantity applies only to the part of the grid box of the named type.  Names containing the where_type qualifier are deprecated and newly created data should use the cell_methods attribute to indicate the horizontal area to which the quantity applies."
surface upward water flux	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The surface water flux is the result of precipitation and evaporation. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface upward water vapor flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface upwelling longwave flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface upwelling longwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface upwelling photosynthetic photon flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". ""Photosynthetic"" radiation is the part of the spectrum which is used in photosynthesis e.g. 400-700 nm. The range of wavelengths could be specified precisely by the bounds of a coordinate of radiation_wavelength. A photon flux is specified in terms of numbers of photons expressed in moles. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface upwelling radiance in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
surface upwelling radiance in air emerging from sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
surface upwelling radiance in air reflected by sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
surface upwelling radiance in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
surface upwelling radiance per unit wavelength in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface upwelling radiance per unit wavelength in air emerging from sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface upwelling radiance per unit wavelength in air reflected by sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface upwelling radiance per unit wavelength in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface upwelling radiative flux per unit wavelength in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface upwelling radiative flux per unit wavelength in sea water	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
surface upwelling shortwave flux in air	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface upwelling shortwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
surface water amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow. Surface amount refers to the amount on the ground, excluding that on the plant or vegetation canopy."
temperature at base of ice sheet model	The quantity with standard name temperature_at_base_of_ice_sheet_model is the lower boundary temperature that is used to force ice sheet models. Beneath ice shelves it is the temperature at the ice-ocean interface. Beneath grounded ice, it is the temperature at the ice-bedrock interface. In all instances the temperature is that of the interface itself and not that of the medium above or below the interface.
temperature at top of ice sheet model	The quantity with standard name temperature_at_top_of_ice_sheet_model is the upper boundary temperature that is used to force ice sheet models. It is the temperature at the interface between the ice sheet and the overlying medium which may be snow or the atmosphere. In all instances the temperature is that of the interface itself and not that of the medium above or below the interface.
temperature difference between ambient air and air lifted adiabatically	"This quantity is defined as the temperature difference between a parcel of air lifted adiabatically from a starting air pressure to a finishing air pressure in the troposphere and the ambient air temperature at the finishing air pressure in the troposphere. It is 
often called the lifted index (LI) and provides a measure of the instability of the atmosphere. The air parcel is ""lifted"" by moving the air parcel from the starting air pressure to the Lifting Condensation Level (dry adiabatically) and then from the Lifting Condensation Level to the finishing air pressure (wet adiabatically). Air temperature is 
the bulk temperature of the air. Coordinate variables of original_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel and 
final_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel should be specified to indicate the specific air pressures at which the parcel lifting starts (starting air pressure) and the temperature difference is calculated at (finishing air pressure), respectively."
temperature difference between ambient air and air lifted adiabatically from the surface	"This quantity is defined as the temperature difference between a parcel of air lifted adiabatically from the surface to a finishing air pressure in the troposphere and the ambient air temperature at the finishing air pressure in the troposphere. It is often called the lifted index (LI) and provides a measure of the instability of the atmosphere. The air parcel is ""lifted"" by moving the air parcel from the surface to the Lifting Condensation Level (dry adiabatically) and then from the Lifting Condensation Level to the finishing air pressure (wet adiabatically). Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. The term ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. A coordinate variable of  final_air_pressure_of_lifted_parcel should be specified to indicate the specific air pressure that the temperature difference is calculated at."
temperature flux due to evaporation expressed as heat flux out of sea water	"Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor.  (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".)  The quantity with standard name temperature_flux_due_to_evaporation_expressed_as_heat_flux_out_of_sea_water is the heat energy carried by the transfer of water away from the liquid ocean through the process of evaporation.  It is distinct from the transfer of latent heat and is calculated relative to the heat that would be transported by water evaporating at zero degrees Celsius. It is calculated as the product QevapCpTevap, where Qevap is the mass flux of evaporating water (kg m-2 s-1), Cp is the specific heat capacity of water and Tevap is the temperature in degrees Celsius of the evaporating water. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
temperature flux due to rainfall expressed as heat flux into sea water	"The quantity with standard name temperature_flux_due_to_rainfall_expressed_as_heat_flux_into_sea_water is the heat energy carried by rainfall entering the sea at the sea surface.  It is calculated relative to the heat that would be carried by rainfall entering the sea at zero degrees Celsius.  It is calculated as the product QrainCpTrain, where Qrain is the mass flux of rainfall entering the sea (kg m-2 s-1), Cp is the specific heat capacity of water and Train is the temperature in degrees Celsius of the rain water entering the sea surface. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
temperature flux due to runoff expressed as heat flux into sea water	"Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage.  The quantity with standard name temperature_flux_due_to_runoff_expressed_as_heat_flux_into_sea_water is the heat carried by the transfer of water into the liquid ocean by the process of runoff. This quantity additonally includes melt water from sea ice and icebergs. It is calculated relative to the heat that would be transported by runoff water entering the sea at zero degrees Celsius.  It is calculated as the product QrunoffCpTrunoff, where Q runoff is the mass flux of liquid runoff entering the sea water (kg m-2 s-1), Cp is the specific heat capacity of water, and Trunoff is the temperature in degrees Celsius of the runoff water. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
temperature in surface snow	"""Temperature in surface snow"" is the bulk temperature of the snow, not the surface (skin) temperature.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
temperature of sensor for oxygen in sea water	Temperature_of_sensor_for_oxygen_in_sea_water is the instrument temperature used in calculating the concentration of oxygen in sea water; it is not a measurement of the ambient water temperature.
tendency of air density	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of air pressure	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
tendency of air temperature	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to convection	"Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of air temperature due to diabatic processes	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to dry convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to longwave heating	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to longwave heating assuming clear sky	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to model physics	"Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of air temperature due to moist convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to radiative heating	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to shortwave heating	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to shortwave heating assuming clear sky	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of air temperature due to stratiform cloud and precipitation and boundary layer mixing	"Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.  In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of air temperature due to stratiform precipitation	"Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of air temperature due to turbulence	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature."
tendency of atmosphere dry energy content	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Dry energy is the sum of dry static energy and kinetic energy. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
tendency of atmosphere enthalpy content due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
tendency of atmosphere kinetic energy content due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of acetaldehyde due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for acetaldehyde is CH3CHO. The IUPAC name for acetaldehyde is ethanal."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of acetaldehyde due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for acetaldehyde is CH3CHO. The IUPAC name for acetaldehyde is ethanal."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of acetaldehyde due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for acetaldehyde is CH3CHO. The IUPAC name for acetaldehyde is ethanal."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of acetic acid due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of acetic acid due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. The chemical formula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of aceto nitrile due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for aceto-nitrile is CH3CN. The IUPAC name for aceto-nitrile is ethanenitrile."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of acetone due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Acetone is an organic molecule with the chemical formula CH3CH3CO. The IUPAC name for acetone is propan-2-one. Acetone is a member of the group of organic compounds known as ketones. There are standard names for the ketone group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alcohols due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Alcohols include all organic compounds with an alcoholic (OH) group. In standard names ""alcohols"" is the term used to describe the group of chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.   The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of aldehydes due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Aldehydes are organic compounds with a CHO group; ""aldehydes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual aldehyde species, e.g., formaldehyde and acetyladehyde."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of aldehydes due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Aldehydes are organic compounds with a CHO group; ""aldehydes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual aldehyde species, e.g., formaldehyde and acetyladehyde."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alkanes due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Alkanes are saturated hydrocarbons, i.e. they do not contain any chemical double bonds. ""Hydrocarbon"" means a compound containing hydrogen and carbon. Alkanes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n+2); ""alkanes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkane species, e.g., methane and ethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alkenes due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Alkenes are unsaturated hydrocarbons as they contain chemical double bonds between adjacent carbon atoms. ""Hydrocarbon"" means a compound containing hydrogen and carbon. Alkenes contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions C(n)H(2n); ""alkenes"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual alkene species, e.g., ethene and propene."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane due to re emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Re-emission"" refers to emission that is not from a primary source; it refers to emission of a species that has previously been deposited and accumulated in soils or water.  ""Re-emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of alpha pinene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for alpha_pinene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for alpha-pinene is (1S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. he chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonia due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonium dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for ammonium is NH4."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ammonium dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles.  ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for ammonium is NH4."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of aromatic compounds due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Aromatic compounds in organic chemistry are compounds that contain at least one benzene ring of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double covalent bonds. The simplest aromatic compound is benzene itself. In standard names ""aromatic_compounds"" is the term used to describe the group of aromatic chemical species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual aromatic species, e.g. benzene and xylene."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6.  Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of benzene due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6. Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of beta pinene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for beta_pinene is C10H16.  The IUPAC name for beta-pinene is (1S,5S)-6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of biogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Biogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by natural processes. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of butane due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species.   The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon dioxide due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to anthropogenic emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity. Anthropogenic emission of carbon dioxide includes fossil fuel use, cement production, agricultural burning and sources associated with anthropogenic land use change, except forest regrowth."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to emission from forestry and agricultural products	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Examples of ""forestry and agricultural products"" are paper, cardboard, furniture, timber for construction, biofuels and food for both humans and livestock. Models that simulate land use changes have one or more pools of carbon that represent these products in order to conserve carbon and allow its eventual release into the atmosphere, for example, when the products decompose in landfill sites."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon dioxide expressed as carbon due to emission from fossil fuel combustion	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2. Fossil fuel combustion includes cement production and flaring of natural gas."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO.   The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon monoxide is CO. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for carbon monoxide is CO. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon monoxide due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of carbon tetrachloride due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of carbon tetrachloride is CCl4."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of cfc113 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of CFC113 is CCl2FCClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC113 is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of cfc113a due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of CFC113a CCl3CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC113a is 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of cfc114 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of CFC114 is CClF2CClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC114 is 1,2-dichloro-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of cfc115 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of CFC115 is CClF2CF3. The IUPAC name for CFC115 is 1-chloro-1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of cfc11 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula of CFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of cfc12 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2.  The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of chlorinated hydrocarbons due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Chlorinated hydrocarbons are a group of chemicals composed of carbon, chlorine and hydrogen. As pesticides, they are also referred to by several other names, including chlorinated organics, chlorinated insecticides and chlorinated synthetics. In standard names ""chlorinated_hydrocarbons"" is the term used to describe the group of chlorinated hydrocarbon species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of chlorinated hydrocarbons due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Chlorinated hydrocarbons are a group of chemicals composed of carbon, chlorine and hydrogen. As pesticides, they are also referred to by several other names, including chlorinated organics, chlorinated insecticides and chlorinated synthetics. In standard names ""chlorinated_hydrocarbons"" is the term used to describe the group of chlorinated hydrocarbon species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.   The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of chlorinated hydrocarbons due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Chlorinated hydrocarbons are a group of chemicals composed of carbon, chlorine and hydrogen. As pesticides, they are also referred to by several other names, including chlorinated organics, chlorinated insecticides and chlorinated synthetics. In standard names ""chlorinated_hydrocarbons"" is the term used to describe the group of chlorinated hydrocarbon species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of chlorinated hydrocarbons due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Chlorinated hydrocarbons are a group of chemicals composed of carbon, chlorine and hydrogen. As pesticides, they are also referred to by several other names, including chlorinated organics, chlorinated insecticides and chlorinated synthetics. In standard names ""chlorinated_hydrocarbons"" is the term used to describe the group of chlorinated hydrocarbon species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of chlorinated hydrocarbons due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Chlorinated hydrocarbons are a group of chemicals composed of carbon, chlorine and hydrogen. As pesticides, they are also referred to by several other names, including chlorinated organics, chlorinated insecticides and chlorinated synthetics. In standard names ""chlorinated_hydrocarbons"" is the term used to describe the group of chlorinated hydrocarbon species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dimethyl sulfide due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dimethyl sulfide due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dimethyl sulfide due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S. Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referred to as DMS. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dimethyl sulfide due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S. Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referred to as DMS. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dimethyl sulfide due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dust dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dust dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles.  ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dust dry aerosol particles due to gravitational settling	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dust dry aerosol particles due to turbulent deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of dust dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol partilces"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to gravitational settling	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to turbulent deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of esters due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Esters in organic chemistry are chemical compounds derived by reacting an oxoacid with a hydroxyl compound such as an alcohol or phenol. Esters are usually derived from an inorganic acid or organic acid in which at least one -OH (hydroxyl) group is replaced by an -O-alkyl (alkoxy) group, and most commonly from carboxylic acids and alcohols. That is, esters are formed by condensing an acid with an alcohol. In standard names ""esters"" is the term used to describe the group of ester species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of esters due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Esters in organic chemistry are chemical compounds derived by reacting an oxoacid with a hydroxyl compound such as an alcohol or phenol. Esters are usually derived from an inorganic acid or organic acid in which at least one -OH (hydroxyl) group is replaced by an -O-alkyl (alkoxy) group, and most commonly from carboxylic acids and alcohols. That is, esters are formed by condensing an acid with an alcohol. In standard names ""esters"" is the term used to describe the group of ester species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of esters due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Esters in organic chemistry are chemical compounds derived by reacting an oxoacid with a hydroxyl compound such as an alcohol or phenol. Esters are usually derived from an inorganic acid or organic acid in which at least one -OH (hydroxyl) group is replaced by an -O-alkyl (alkoxy) group, and most commonly from carboxylic acids and alcohols. That is, esters are formed by condensing an acid with an alcohol. In standard names ""esters"" is the term used to describe the group of ester species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethane due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethanol due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethanol is C2H5OH."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethene due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names.   The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethers due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Ethers are a class of organic compounds that contain an ether group - an oxygen atom connected to two alkyl or aryl groups - of general formula R-O-R. In standard names ""ethers"" is the term used to describe the group of ether species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethers due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Ethers are a class of organic compounds that contain an ether group - an oxygen atom connected to two alkyl or aryl groups - of general formula R-O-R. In standard names ""ethers"" is the term used to describe the group of ether species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethers due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Ethers are a class of organic compounds that contain an ether group - an oxygen atom connected to two alkyl or aryl groups - of general formula R-O-R. In standard names ""ethers"" is the term used to describe the group of ether species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.   The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethers due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Ethers are a class of organic compounds that contain an ether group - an oxygen atom connected to two alkyl or aryl groups - of general formula R-O-R. In standard names ""ethers"" is the term used to describe the group of ether species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethers due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Ethers are a class of organic compounds that contain an ether group - an oxygen atom connected to two alkyl or aryl groups - of general formula R-O-R. In standard names ""ethers"" is the term used to describe the group of ether species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethers due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Ethers are a class of organic compounds that contain an ether group - an oxygen atom connected to two alkyl or aryl groups - of general formula R-O-R. In standard names ""ethers"" is the term used to describe the group of ether species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethers due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Ethers are a class of organic compounds that contain an ether group - an oxygen atom connected to two alkyl or aryl groups - of general formula R-O-R. In standard names ""ethers"" is the term used to describe the group of ether species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute.   The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H.  Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ethyne due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H. Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal.   The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formaldehyde due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formic acid due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of formic acid due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. The chemical formula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of gaseous divalent mercury due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of gaseous divalent mercury due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of gaseous divalent mercury due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of gaseous elemental mercury due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of gaseous elemental mercury due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of gaseous elemental mercury due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of halon1202 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for halon1202 is CBr2F2. The IUPAC name for halon1202 is dibromo-difluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of halon1211 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for halon1211 is CBrClF2. The IUPAC name for halon1211 is bromo-chloro-difluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of halon1301 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for halon1301 is CBrF3. The IUPAC name for halon1301 is bromo-trifluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of halon2402 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for halo2402 is C2Br2F4. The IUPAC name for halon2402 is 1,2-dibromo-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hcc140a due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for hcc140a is CH3CCl3. The IUPAC name for hcc140a is 1,1,1-trichloro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hcfc141b due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for HCFC141b is CH3CCl2F. The IUPAC name for HCFC141b is 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hcfc142b due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for HCFC142b is CH3CClF2. The IUPAC name for HCFC142b is 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hcfc22 due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC22 is chloro-difluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hexachlorobiphenyl due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hexachlorobiphenyl due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hexachlorobiphenyl due to re emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Re-emission"" refers to emission that is not from a primary source; it refers to emission of a species that has previously been deposited and accumulated in soils or water.  ""Re-emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hexachlorobiphenyl due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hydrogen cyanide due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for hydrogen cyanide is HCN."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hydrogen cyanide due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for hydrogen cyanide is HCN."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hydrogen peroxide due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide is H2O2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of hydrogen peroxide due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide is H2O2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of isoprene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of isoprene due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes. There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of isoprene due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes. There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species.   The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ketones due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. In organic chemistry, a ketone is a compound with the structure RC(=O)R', where R and R' can be a variety of atoms and groups of atoms. It features a carbonyl group (C=O) bonded to two other carbon atoms. Acetone is the simplest example of a ketone. In standard names ""ketones"" is the term used to describe the group of ketone species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of limonene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for limonene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for limonene is 1-methyl-4-prop-1-en-2-yl-cyclohexene. Limonene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of mercury dry aerosol due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of mercury dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of mercury dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. he chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methane due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methanesulfonic acid dry aerosol particles due to net chemical production	"Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Net chemical production"" means the net result of all chemical reactions within the atmosphere that produce or destroy a particular species. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for methanesulfonic acid is CH3SO3H."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methanesulfonic acid dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for methanesulfonic acid is CH3SO3H."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methanesulfonic acid due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for methanesulfonic acid is CH3SO3H."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methanol due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methanol is CH3OH."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methyl bromide due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methyl bromide is CH3Br. The IUPAC name for methyl bromide is bromomethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of methyl chloride due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for methyl chloride is CH3Cl. The IUPAC name for methyl chloride is chloromethane."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of molecular hydrogen due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of molecular hydrogen due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of molecular hydrogen due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of molecular hydrogen due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for molecular hydrogen is H2. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of monoterpenes due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Monoterpenes are a class of terpenes that consist of two isoprene units and have the molecular formula C10H16. Terpenes are hydrocarbons. The term ""monoterpenes"" is used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrate dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrate dry aerosol particles due to net chemical production	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Net chemical production"" means the net result of all chemical reactions within the atmosphere that produce or destroy a particular species. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrate dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitric acid due to dry deposition	"quot;Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitric acid due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Deposition"" is the sum of wet and dry deposition. ""Nitrogen compounds"" summarizes all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), ammonia (NH3), ammonium (NH4+), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)) are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""dry_deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""Nitrogen compounds"" summarizes all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), ammonia (NH3), ammonium (NH4+), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)) are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""wet_deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""Nitrogen compounds"" summarizes all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), ammon1a (NH3), ammonium (NH4+), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)) are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen dioxide due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen dioxide due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen dioxide due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen dioxide due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names.   The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrogen monoxide due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO.   The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrous acid due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrous acid due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrous acid due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrous oxide due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for nitrous oxide is N2O."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nitrous oxide due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrous oxide is N2O."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nmvoc expressed as carbon due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds. ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Nox"" means nitric oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2). ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation. ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from soil	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen NO+NO2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of noy expressed as nitrogen due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of noy expressed as nitrogen due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic acids due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties. The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids, whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH. In standard names ""organic_acids"" is the term used to describe the group of organic acid species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic acids due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties. The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids, whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH. In standard names ""organic_acids"" is the term used to describe the group of organic acid species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic acids due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties. The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids, whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH. In standard names ""organic_acids"" is the term used to describe the group of organic acid species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic acids due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties. The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids, whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH. In standard names ""organic_acids"" is the term used to describe the group of organic acid species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic acids due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties. The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids, whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH. In standard names ""organic_acids"" is the term used to describe the group of organic acid species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic acids due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties. The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids, whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH. In standard names ""organic_acids"" is the term used to describe the group of organic acid species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic acids due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties. The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids, whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH. In standard names ""organic_acids"" is the term used to describe the group of organic acid species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic acids due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. An organic acid is an organic compound with acidic properties. The most common organic acids are the carboxylic acids, whose acidity is associated with their carboxyl group -COOH. In standard names ""organic_acids"" is the term used to describe the group of organic acid species that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic nitrates due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. Organic nitrates are nitrogen-containing compounds having the general formula RONO2, where R is an alkyl (or organic) group; ""organic nitrates"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic nitrates due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Organic nitrates are nitrogen-containing compounds having the general formula RONO2, where R is an alkyl (or organic) group; ""organic_nitrates"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic peroxides due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Organic peroxides are organic molecules containing an oxygen-oxygen bond. The general chemical formula is ROOR or ROOH, where R is an organic group."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of organic peroxides due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Organic peroxides are organic molecules containing an oxygen-oxygen bond. The general chemical formula is ROOR or ROOH, where R is an organic group."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of oxidized nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Deposition"" is the sum of wet and dry deposition. ""Oxidized nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state greater than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of oxidized nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""Oxidized nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state greater than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of oxidized nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""Oxidized nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state greater than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ozone due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of ozone due to dry deposition into stomata	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition""is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles.  Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X  with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except black carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to gravitational settling	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to net chemical production and emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles.  ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Net chemical production"" means the net result of all chemical reactions within the atmosphere that produce or destroy a particular species. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to turbulent deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol.The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon.  It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except black carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except black carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation. ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Primary particulate organic matter "" means all organic matter emitted directly to the atmosphere as particles except elemental carbon. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, waste water handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles expressed as carbon due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The term ""particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol"" means all particulate organic matter dry aerosol except elemental carbon. It is the sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for pentane is C5H12. Pentane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for pentane is C5H12. Pentane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for pentane is C5H12. Pentane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for pentane is C5H12. Pentane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for pentane is C5H12. Pentane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for pentane is C5H12. Pentane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for pentane is C5H12. Pentane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for pentane is C5H12. Pentane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pentane due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names.  The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of peroxyacetyl nitrate due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, is CH3COO2NO2.  The IUPAC name for peroxyacetyl_nitrate is nitroethaneperoxoate."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of peroxynitric acid due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for peroxynitric acid, sometimes referred to as PNA, is HO2NO2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 dust dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 dust dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 dust dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 sea salt dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 sea salt dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm10 sea salt dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm10 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 10 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 dust dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 dust dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 dust dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 sea salt dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 sea salt dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of pm2p5 sea salt dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Pm2p5 aerosol"" means atmospheric particulate compounds with an aerodynamic diameter of less than or equal to 2.5 micrometers. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of primary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of primary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself.  Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol.""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Primary particulate organic matter "" means all organic matter emitted directly to the atmosphere as particles except elemental carbon.  The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of primary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Primary particulate organic matter "" means all organic matter emitted directly to the atmosphere as particles except elemental carbon. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propane due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of propene due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes. There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of radon due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical symbol for radon is Rn."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of reduced nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Deposition"" is the sum of wet and dry deposition. ""Reduced nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state less than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, primarily ammonium (NH4+) and ammonia (NH3), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of reduced nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""Reduced nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state less than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, primarily ammonium (NH4+) and ammonia (NH3), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of reduced nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""Reduced nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state less than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, primarily ammonium (NH4+) and ammonia (NH3), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sea salt dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sea salt dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sea salt dry aerosol particles due to gravitational settling	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sea salt dry aerosol particles due to turbulent deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sea salt dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of secondary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of secondary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Secondary particulate organic matter"" means particulate organic matter formed within the atmosphere from gaseous precursors. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of secondary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to net chemical production	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Secondary particulate organic matter"" means particulate organic matter formed within the atmosphere from gaseous precursors. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Net chemical production"" means the net result of all chemical reactions within the atmosphere that produce or destroy a particular species. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of secondary particulate organic matter dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""Secondary particulate organic matter"" means particulate organic matter formed within the atmosphere from gaseous precursors. The sum of primary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol and secondary_particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol is particulate_organic_matter_dry_aerosol. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sesquiterpenes due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Terpenes are hydrocarbons, that is, they contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions (C5H8)n where n is an integer greater than on equal to one. Sesquiterpenes are a class of terpenes that consist of three isoprene units and have the molecular formula C15H24. Terpenes are hydrocarbons. The term ""sesquiterpenes"" is used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol expressed as sulfur due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles due to aqueous phase net chemical production	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Net chemical production"" means the net result of all chemical reactions within the atmosphere that produce or destroy a particular species. ""Aqueous phase net chemical production"" means the net result of all aqueous chemical processes in fog and clouds that produce or destroy a species, as opposed to chemical processes in the gaseous phase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles due to gaseous phase net chemical production	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Gaseous phase net chemical production"" means the net result of all gaseous chemical processes in the atmosphere that produce or destroy a species, distinct from chemical processes in the aqueous phase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the particles. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles expressed as sulfur due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles expressed as sulfur due to gravitational settling	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfate dry aerosol particles expressed as sulfur due to turbulent deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface).  ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2.   The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names.   The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of sulfur dioxide due to wet deposition	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of terpenes due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Terpenes are hydrocarbons, that is, they contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions (C5H8)n where n is an integer greater than on equal to one. The term ""terpenes"" is used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual terpene species, e.g., isoprene and limonene. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of terpenes due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. Terpenes are hydrocarbons, that is, they contain only hydrogen and carbon combined in the general proportions (C5H8)n where n is an integer greater than on equal to one. The term ""terpenes"" is used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this common structure that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names exist for some individual terpene species, e.g., isoprene and limonene. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3.  Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group.  The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names.  The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of toluene due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3. Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group. The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of trimethylbenzene due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for trimethylbenzene is C9H12. The IUPAC names for trimethylbenzene is 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene. Trimethylbenzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of water due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Water"" means water in all phases."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of water vapor	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Atmosphere water vapor content is sometimes referred to as ""precipitable water"", although this term does not imply the water could all be precipitated."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of water vapor due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Atmosphere water vapor content is sometimes referred to as ""precipitable water"", although this term does not imply the water could all be precipitated."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of water vapor due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Atmosphere water vapor content is sometimes referred to as ""precipitable water"", although this term does not imply the water could all be precipitated."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of water vapor due to deep convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Atmosphere water vapor content is sometimes referred to as ""precipitable water"", although this term does not imply the water could all be precipitated."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of water vapor due to shallow convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Atmosphere water vapor content is sometimes referred to as ""precipitable water"", although this term does not imply the water could all be precipitated."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of water vapor due to turbulence	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Atmosphere water vapor content is sometimes referred to as ""precipitable water"", although this term does not imply the water could all be precipitated."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from agricultural production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""agricultural production"" sector comprises the agricultural processes of enteric fermentation, manure management, rice cultivation, agricultural soils and other. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in agriculture-related inventory data. ""Agricultural production"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D and 4G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from agricultural waste burning	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""agricultural waste burning"" sector comprises field burning of agricultural residues. ""Agricultural waste burning"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 4F as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from energy production and distribution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""energy production and distribution"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to energy industries and fugitive emissions from fuels. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in energy-related inventory data. ""Energy production and distribution"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A1 and 1B as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from forest fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""forest fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in forests. ""Forest fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from industrial processes and combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""industrial processes and combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to manufacturing industries and construction, industrial processes related to mineral products, the chemical industry, metal production, the production of pulp, paper, food and drink, and non-energy industry use of lubricants and waxes. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in industry-related inventory data. ""Industrial processes and combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A2, 2A, 2B, 2C, 2D and 2G as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from land transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""land transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to road transportation, railways and other transportation.  ""Land transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A3b, 1A3c and 1A3e as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from maritime transport	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""maritime transport"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to maritime transport. ""Maritime transport"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3d as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from residential and commercial combustion	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""residential and commercial combustion"" sector comprises fuel combustion activities related to the commercial/institutional sector, the residential sector and the agriculture/forestry/fishing sector. It may also include any not-classified or ""other"" combustion, which is commonly included in the inventory data. ""Residential and commercial combustion"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 1A4a, 1A4b and 1A4c as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from savanna and grassland fires	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""savanna and grassland fires"" sector comprises the burning (natural and human-induced) of living or dead vegetation in non-forested areas. It excludes field burning of agricultural residues. ""Savanna and grassland fires"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 5 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas Inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from solvent production and use	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""solvent production and use"" sector comprises industrial processes related to the consumption of halocarbons, SF6, solvent and other product use. ""Solvent production and use"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 2F and 3 as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass content of xylene due to emission from waste treatment and disposal	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including ""content_of_atmosphere_layer"" are used. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species. The ""waste treatment and disposal"" sector comprises solid waste disposal on land, wastewater handling, waste incineration and other waste disposal. ""Waste treatment and disposal"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source categories 6A, 6B, 6C and 6D as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of atmosphere mass per unit area	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell."
tendency of atmosphere mass per unit area due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell."
tendency of atmosphere mole concentration of methane due to chemical destruction	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Chemical destruction"" means the result of all chemical reactions within the medium (here, atmosphere) that remove a certain amount of a particular species from the medium. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes. There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere mole concentration of ozone due to chemical destruction	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Chemical destruction"" means the result of all chemical reactions within the medium (here, atmosphere) that remove a certain amount of a particular species from the medium. The chemical formula for ozone is O3. The IUPAC name for ozone is trioxygen."
tendency of atmosphere mole concentration of ozone due to chemical production	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Chemical production"" means the result of all chemical reactions within the medium (here, atmosphere) that produce a certain amount of the particular species. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for ozone is O3. The IUPAC name for ozone is trioxygen."
tendency of atmosphere moles of acetic acid	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for acetic_acid is CH3COOH. The IUPAC name for acetic acid is ethanoic acid."
tendency of atmosphere moles of aceto nitrile	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for aceto-nitrile is CH3CN. The IUPAC name for aceto-nitrile is ethanenitrile."
tendency of atmosphere moles of alpha hexachlorocyclohexane	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for alpha_hexachlorocyclohexane is C6H6Cl6."
tendency of atmosphere moles of alpha pinene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for alpha_pinene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for alpha-pinene is (1S,5S)-2,6,6-trimethylbicyclo[3.1.1]hept-2-ene."
tendency of atmosphere moles of ammonia	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3."
tendency of atmosphere moles of anthropogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Anthropogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by human activity."
tendency of atmosphere moles of atomic bromine	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for atomic bromine is Br."
tendency of atmosphere moles of atomic chlorine	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for atomic chlorine is Cl."
tendency of atmosphere moles of atomic nitrogen	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for atomic nitrogen is N."
tendency of atmosphere moles of benzene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for benzene is C6H6.  Benzene is the simplest aromatic hydrocarbon and has a ring structure consisting of six carbon atoms joined by alternating single and double chemical bonds. Each carbon atom is additionally bonded to one hydrogen atom. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of beta pinene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for beta_pinene is C10H16.  The IUPAC name for beta-pinene is (1S,5S)-6,6-dimethyl-2-methylenebicyclo[3.1.1]heptane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of biogenic nmvoc expressed as carbon	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Biogenic"" means influenced, caused, or created by natural processes."
tendency of atmosphere moles of bromine chloride	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for bromine chloride is BrCl."
tendency of atmosphere moles of bromine monoxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for bromine monoxide is BrO."
tendency of atmosphere moles of bromine nitrate	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for bromine nitrate is BrONO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of brox expressed as bromine	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Brox""  describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic bromine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen bromide (HBr) and bromine nitrate (BrONO2). ""Brox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols.  Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_bromine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere moles of butane	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for butane is C4H10. Butane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of carbon dioxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for carbon dioxide is CO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of carbon monoxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere,i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula ofcarbon monoxide is CO."
tendency of atmosphere moles of carbon tetrachloride	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere,i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula ofcarbon tetrachloride is CCl4."
tendency of atmosphere moles of cfc11	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere,i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula ofCFC11 is CFCl3. The IUPAC name fof CFC11 is trichloro-fluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of cfc113	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. Thechemical formula of CFC113 is CCl2FCClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC113 is 1,1,2-trichloro-1,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of cfc113a	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula of CFC113a CCl3CF3.  The IUPAC name for CFC113a is 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2,2-trifluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of cfc114	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere,i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula ofCFC114 is CClF2CClF2. The IUPAC name for CFC114 is 1,2-dichloro-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of cfc115	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. Thechemical formula of CFC115 is CClF2CF3. The IUPAC name for CFC115 is 1-chloro-1,1,2,2,2-pentafluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of cfc12	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. Thechemical formula for CFC12 is CF2Cl2.  The IUPAC name for CFC12 is dichloro-difluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of chlorine dioxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for chlorine dioxide is OClO."
tendency of atmosphere moles of chlorine monoxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for chlorine monoxide is ClO."
tendency of atmosphere moles of chlorine nitrate	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for chlorine nitrate is ClONO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of clox expressed as chlorine	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Clox"" describes a family of chemical species consisting of inorganic chlorine compounds with the exception of  hydrogen chloride (HCl) and chlorine nitrate (ClONO2). ""Clox"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity with a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols.   Standard names that use the term ""inorganic_chlorine"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species including HCl and ClONO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere moles of dichlorine peroxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for dichlorine peroxide is Cl2O2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of dimethyl sulfide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for dimethyl sulfide is (CH3)2S.  Dimethyl sulfide is sometimes referred to as DMS."
tendency of atmosphere moles of dinitrogen pentoxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for dinitrogen pentoxide is N2O5."
tendency of atmosphere moles of ethane	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ethane is C2H6. Ethane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of ethanol	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ethanol is C2H5OH."
tendency of atmosphere moles of ethene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ethene is C2H4. Ethene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of ethyne	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ethyne is HC2H.  Ethyne is the IUPAC name for this species, which is also commonly known as acetylene."
tendency of atmosphere moles of formaldehyde	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal."
tendency of atmosphere moles of formic acid	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for formic acid is HCOOH.  The IUPAC name for formic acid is methanoic acid."
tendency of atmosphere moles of gaseous divalent mercury	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Divalent mercury"" means all compounds in which the mercury has two binding sites to other ion(s) in a salt or to other atom(s) in a molecule."
tendency of atmosphere moles of gaseous elemental mercury	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for mercury is Hg."
tendency of atmosphere moles of halon1202	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for halon1202 is CBr2F2. The IUPAC name for halon1202 is dibromo-difluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of halon1211	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for halon1211 is CBrClF2. The IUPAC name for halon1211 is bromo-chloro-difluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of halon1301	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for halon1301 is CBrF3. The IUPAC name for halon1301 is bromo-trifluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of halon2402	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for halo2402 is C2Br2F4. The IUPAC name for halon2402 is 1,2-dibromo-1,1,2,2-tetrafluoro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hcc140a	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hcc140a is CH3CCl3. The IUPAC name for hcc140a is 1,1,1-trichloro-ethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hcfc141b	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for HCFC141b is CH3CCl2F. The IUPAC name for HCFC141b is 1,1-dichloro-1-fluoroethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hcfc142b	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for HCFC142b is CH3CClF2. The IUPAC name for HCFC142b is 1-chloro-1,1-difluoroethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hcfc22	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC22 is chloro-difluoro-methane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hexachlorobiphenyl	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hexachlorobiphenyl is C12H4Cl6.  This structure of this species consists of two linked benzene rings, each of which is additionally bonded to three chlorine atoms."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hox expressed as hydrogen	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""HOx"" means a combination of two radical species containing hydrogen and oxygen: OH and HO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hydrogen bromide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hydrogen bromide is HBr."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hydrogen chloride	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hydrogen chloride is HCl."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hydrogen cyanide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hydrogen cyanide is HCN."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hydrogen peroxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide is H2O2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hydroperoxyl radical	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for the hydroperoxyl radical is HO2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hydroxyl radical	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for the hydroxyl radical is OH. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hypobromous acid	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hypobromous acid is HOBr."
tendency of atmosphere moles of hypochlorous acid	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for hypochlorous acid is HOCl."
tendency of atmosphere moles of inorganic bromine	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Inorganic bromine"", sometimes referred to as Bry, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing bromine (halons, methyl bromide, VSLS) and natural inorganic bromine sources such as volcanoes, seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic bromine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""brox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic bromine species except HBr and BrONO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of inorganic chlorine	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Inorganic chlorine"", sometimes referred to as Cly, describes a family of chemical species which result from the degradation of source gases containing chlorine (CFCs, HCFCs, VSLS) and natural inorganic chlorine sources such as seasalt and other aerosols. ""Inorganic chlorine"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names that use the term ""clox"" are used for quantities that contain all inorganic chlorine species except HCl and ClONO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of isoprene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for isoprene is CH2=C(CH3)CH=CH2. The IUPAC name for isoprene is 2-methyl-buta-1,3-diene. Isoprene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of limonene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for limonene is C10H16. The IUPAC name for limonene is 1-methyl-4-prop-1-en-2-yl-cyclohexene. Limonene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as terpenes.  There are standard names for the terpene group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of methane	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere,i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  Thereare standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of methanol	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methanol is CH3OH."
tendency of atmosphere moles of methyl bromide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere,i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methyl bromide is CH3Br. The IUPAC name for methyl bromide is bromomethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of methyl chloride	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the entire atmosphere, i.e, summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of methyl chloride is CH3Cl. The IUPAC name for methyl chloride is chloromethane."
tendency of atmosphere moles of methyl hydroperoxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methyl hydroperoxide is CH3OOH."
tendency of atmosphere moles of methyl peroxy radical	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for methyl_peroxy_radical is CH3O2. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of molecular hydrogen	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the entire atmosphere, i.e, summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of molecular hydrogen is H2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nitrate radical	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitrate is NO3. In chemistry, a 'radical' is a highly reactive, and therefore shortlived, species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nitric acid	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nitric acid trihydrate ambient aerosol particles	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for nitric acid is HNO3. Nitric acid trihydrate, sometimes referred to as NAT, is a stable crystalline substance consisting of three molecules of water to one molecule of nitric acid."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nitrogen dioxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nitrogen monoxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nitrous acid	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for nitrous acid is HNO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nitrous oxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the entire atmosphere, i.e, summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of nitrous oxide is N2O."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nmvoc expressed as carbon	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. ""nmvoc"" means non methane volatile organic compounds; ""nmvoc"" is the term used in standard names to describe the group of chemical species having this classification that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of atmosphere moles of nox expressed as nitrogen	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere moles of noy expressed as nitrogen	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Noy"" describes a family of chemical species. The family usually includes atomic nitrogen (N), nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2) , chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)). The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of atmosphere moles of ozone	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for ozone is O3."
tendency of atmosphere moles of peroxyacetyl nitrate	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, is CH3COO2NO2.  The IUPAC name for peroxyacetyl_nitrate is nitroethaneperoxoate."
tendency of atmosphere moles of peroxynitric acid	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for peroxynitric acid, sometimes referred to as PNA, is HO2NO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of propane	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for propane is C3H8. Propane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of propene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for propene is C3H6. Propene is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkenes.  There are standard names for the alkene group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of atmosphere moles of radon	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical symbol for radon is Rn."
tendency of atmosphere moles of sulfate dry aerosol particles	"The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol particles take up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the sulfate anion is SO4(2-)."
tendency of atmosphere moles of sulfur dioxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for sulfur dioxide is SO2."
tendency of atmosphere moles of toluene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for toluene is C6H5CH3.  Toluene has the same structure as benzene, except that one of the hydrogen atoms is replaced by a methyl group.  The systematic name for toluene is methylbenzene."
tendency of atmosphere moles of water vapor	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe."
tendency of atmosphere moles of xylene	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  The construction ""atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X in the entire atmosphere, i.e. summed over the atmospheric column and over the entire globe. The chemical formula for xylene is C6H4C2H6. In chemistry, xylene is a generic term for a group of three isomers of dimethylbenzene. The IUPAC names for the isomers are 1,2-dimethylbenzene, 1,3-dimethylbenzene and 1,4-dimethylbenzene. Xylene is an aromatic hydrocarbon. There are standard names that refer to aromatic_compounds as a group, as well as those for individual species."
tendency of atmosphere number content of aerosol particles due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Dry deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere number content of aerosol particles due to gravitational settling	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere number content of aerosol particles due to turbulent depostion	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling is dry deposition. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere number content of aerosol particles due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Wet deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of atmosphere of mole concentration of carbon monoxide due to chemical destruction	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Chemical destruction"" means the result of all chemical reactions within the medium (here, atmosphere) that remove a certain amount of a particular species from the medium. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO."
tendency of atmosphere potential energy content due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""atmosphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the top of the atmosphere. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)"
tendency of bedrock altitude	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level. ""Bedrock"" is the solid Earth surface beneath land ice or ocean water."
tendency of change in land ice amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Zero change in land ice amount is an arbitrary level. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of dry energy content of atmosphere layer	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Dry energy is the sum of dry static energy and kinetic energy. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
tendency of dry static energy content of atmosphere layer	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
tendency of eastward wind	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of eastward wind due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of eastward wind due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of eastward wind due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of eastward wind due to eliassen palm flux divergence	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  ""Eliassen Palm flux"" is a widely used vector in the meridional plane, and the divergence of this flux appears as a forcing in the Transformed Eulerian mean formulation of the zonal mean zonal wind equation.  Thus, ""eastward_wind"" here will generally be the zonally averaged eastward wind."
tendency of eastward wind due to gravity wave drag	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)  The quantity named tendency_of_eastward_wind_due_to_gravity_wave_drag is the sum of the tendencies due to orographic and nonorographic gravity waves which have standard names of tendency_of_eastward_wind_due_to_orographic_gravity_wave_drag and tendency_of_eastward_wind_due_to_nonorographic_gravity_wave_drag, respectively."
tendency of eastward wind due to nonorographic gravity wave drag	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  The total tendency of the eastward wind due to gravity waves has the standard name tendency_of_eastward_wind_due_to_gravity_wave_drag.  It is the sum of the tendencies due to orographic gravity waves and nonorographic waves.  The tendency of eastward wind due to orographic gravity waves has the standard name tendency_of_eastward_wind_due_to_orographic_gravity_wave_drag."
tendency of eastward wind due to numerical artefacts	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  The total tendency of the eastward wind will include a variety of numerical and diffusive effects: a variable with this standard name is sometimes needed to allow the momentum budget to be closed."
tendency of eastward wind due to orographic gravity wave drag	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  The total tendency of the eastward wind due to gravity waves has the standard name tendency_of_eastward_wind_due_to_gravity_wave_drag.  It is the sum of the tendencies due to orographic gravity waves and nonorographic waves.  The tendency of eastward wind due to nonorographic gravity waves has the standard name tendency_of_eastward_wind_due_to_nonorographic_gravity_wave_drag."
tendency of enthalpy content of atmosphere layer due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume."
tendency of global average sea level change	"Global average sea level change is due to change in volume of the water in the ocean, caused by mass and/or density change, or to change in the volume of the ocean basins, caused by tectonics etc. It is sometimes called ""eustatic"", which is a term that also has other definitions. It differs from the change in the global average sea surface height relative to the centre of the Earth by the global average vertical movement of the ocean floor. Zero sea level change is an arbitrary level. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Because global average sea level change quantifies the change in volume of the world ocean, it is not calculated necessarily by considering local changes in mean sea level."
tendency of kinetic energy content of atmosphere layer due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
tendency of land ice mass due to basal mass balance	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. Mass balance means the net rate at which ice is accumulated. A negative value means loss of ice. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The tendency of land ice mass is the spatially integrated mass balance. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The tendency in ice mass due to the basal mass balance is the spatial integral of the quantity with standard name land_ice_basal_specific_mass_balance_flux. The horizontal domain over which the quantity is calculated is described by the associated coordinate variables and coordinate bounds or by a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of ""region"" supplied according to section 6.1.1 of the CF conventions."
tendency of land ice mass due to calving	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The tendency in ice mass due to calving is the spatial integral of the quantity named land_ice_specific_mass_flux_due_to_calving. The horizontal domain over which the quantity is calculated is described by the associated coordinate variables and coordinate bounds or by a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of ""region"" supplied according to section 6.1.1 of the CF conventions."
tendency of land ice thickness	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves.  ""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer.."
tendency of mass concentration of elemental carbon dry aerosol particles in air due to emission from aviation	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The mass is the total mass of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. the surface of the earth). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. Aerosol takes up ambient water (a process known as hygroscopic growth) depending on the relative humidity and the composition of the aerosol. ""Dry aerosol particles"" means aerosol particles without any water uptake. The ""aviation"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to civil aviation. ""Aviation"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3a as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories"". Chemically, ""elemental carbon"" is the carbonaceous fraction of particulate matter that is thermally stable in an inert atmosphere to high temperatures near 4000K and can only be gasified by oxidation starting at temperatures above 340 C. It is assumed to be inert and non-volatile under atmospheric conditions and insoluble in any solvent (Ogren and Charlson, 1983)."
tendency of mass concentration of nitrogen dioxide in air due to emission from aviation	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen dioxide is NO2. The ""aviation"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to civil aviation. ""Aviation"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3a as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of mass concentration of nitrogen monoxide in air due to emission from aviation	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The mass is the total mass of the molecules. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. The chemical formula for nitrogen monoxide is NO. The ""aviation"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to civil aviation. ""Aviation"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3a as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of mass concentration of nox expressed as nitrogen monoxide in air due to emission from aviation	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass concentration means mass per unit volume and is used in the construction mass_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Emission"" means emission from a primary source located anywhere within the atmosphere, including at the lower boundary (i.e. earth's surface). ""Emission"" is a process entirely distinct from ""re-emission"" which is used in some standard names. ""Nox"" means a combination of two radical species containing nitrogen and oxygen: NO+NO2. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The ""aviation"" sector includes fuel combustion activities related to civil aviation. ""Aviation"" is the term used in standard names to describe a collection of emission sources. A variable which has this value for the standard_name attribute should be accompanied by a comment attribute which lists the source categories and provides a reference to the categorization scheme, for example, ""IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) source category 1A3a as defined in the 2006 IPCC guidelines for national greenhouse gas inventories""."
tendency of mass content of water vapor in atmosphere layer	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
tendency of mass content of water vapor in atmosphere layer due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
tendency of mass content of water vapor in atmosphere layer due to deep convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
tendency of mass content of water vapor in atmosphere layer due to shallow convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well."
tendency of mass content of water vapor in atmosphere layer due to turbulence	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary variable) as well."
tendency of mass fraction of cloud condensed water in air	"""Tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  ""Condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of cloud condensed water in air due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
tendency of mass fraction of cloud ice in air	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
tendency of mass fraction of cloud ice in air due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
tendency of mass fraction of cloud ice in air due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
tendency of mass fraction of cloud liquid water in air	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
tendency of mass fraction of cloud liquid water in air due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
tendency of mass fraction of cloud liquid water in air due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X)."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud condensed water in air	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convectionschemes).  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud condensed water in air due to advection	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud condensed water in air due to autoconversion to rain	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Autoconversion is the process of collision and coalescence which results in the formation of precipitation particles from cloud water droplets or ice crystals. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud condensed water in air due to autoconversion to snow	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Autoconversion is the process of collision and coalescence which results in the formation of precipitation particles from cloud water droplets or ice crystals. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud condensed water in air due to boundary layer mixing	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convectionschemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud condensed water in air due to cloud microphysics	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.  In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. 'cloud_microphysics' is the sum of many cloud processes such as condensation, evaporation, homogeneous nucleation, heterogeneous nucleation, deposition, sublimation, the Bergeron-Findeisen process, riming, accretion, aggregationand icefall.  The precise list of processes that are included in 'cloud_microphysics' canvary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the processes included, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names also exist to describe the tendencies due to the separate processes. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud condensed water in air due to condensation and evaporation	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor.  (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".) Condensation is the conversion of vapor into liquid. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud condensed water in air due to icefall	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""condensed_water"" means liquid and ice."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convectionschemes).  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to accretion to snow	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Accretion is the growth of a hydrometeor by collision with cloud droplets or ice crystals. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to advection	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to aggregation	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Aggregation is the clumping together of frozen cloud particles to produce snowflakes. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to bergeron findeisen process from cloud liquid	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convectionschemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. The Bergeron-Findeisen process is the conversion of cloud liquid water to cloud ice arising from the fact that water vapor has a lower equilibrium vapor pressure with respect to ice than it has with respect to liquid water at the same subfreezing temperature. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to boundary layer mixing	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convectionschemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to cloud microphysics	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.  In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. 'cloud_microphysics' is the sum of many cloud processes such as condensation, evaporation, homogeneous nucleation, heterogeneous nucleation, deposition, sublimation, the Bergeron-Findeisen process, riming, accretion, aggregationand icefall.  The precise list of processes that are included in 'cloud_microphysics' canvary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the processes included, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names also exist to describe the tendencies due to the separate processes. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to convective detrainment	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to deposition and sublimation	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Sublimation is the conversion of solid into vapor. Deposition is the opposite of sublimation, i.e. it is the conversion of vapor into solid.  Deposition is distinct from the processes of dry deposition and wet deposition of atmospheric aerosol particles, which are referred to in some standard names. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to evaporation of melting ice	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor.  (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".)  In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to heterogeneous nucleation from cloud liquid water	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a   single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Heterogeneous nucleation occurs when a small particle of a substance other than water acts as a freezing or condensation nucleus."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to heterogeneous nucleation from water vapor	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a   single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Heterogeneous nucleation occurs when a small particle of a substance other than water acts as a freezing or condensation nucleus."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to homogeneous nucleation	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a   single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Homogeneous nucleation occurs when a small number of water molecules combine to form a freezing or condensation nucleus."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to icefall	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to melting to cloud liquid water	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to melting to rain	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to riming from cloud liquid water	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Riming is the rapid freezing of supercooled water onto a surface. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud ice in air due to riming from rain	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Riming is the rapid freezing of supercooled water onto a surface. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convectionschemes).  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to accretion to rain	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Accretion is the growth of a hydrometeor by collision with cloud droplets or ice crystals. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to accretion to snow	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Accretion is the growth of a hydrometeor by collision with cloud droplets or ice crystals. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to advection	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to autoconversion	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Autoconversion is the process of collision and coalescence which results in the formation of precipitation particles from cloud water droplets or ice crystals. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to bergeron findeisen process to cloud ice	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'.  In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. The Bergeron-Findeisen process is the conversion of cloud liquid water to cloud ice arising from the fact that water vapor has a lower equilibrium vapor pressure with respect to ice than it has with respect to liquid water at the same subfreezing temperature. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to boundary layer mixing	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convectionschemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to cloud microphysics	"'Mass fraction' is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convectionschemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. 'cloud_microphysics' is the sum of many cloud processes such as condensation, evaporation, homogeneous nucleation, heterogeneous nucleation, deposition, sublimation, the Bergeron-Findeisen process, riming, accretion, aggregationand icefall.  The precise list of processes that are included in 'cloud_microphysics' canvary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the processes included, for example, by using a comment attribute. Standard names also exist to describe the tendencies due to the separate processes.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to condensation and evaporation	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. Condensation is the conversion of vapor into liquid. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to condensation and evaporation from boundary layer mixing	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. Condensation is the conversion of vapor into liquid. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to condensation and evaporation from convection	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. Condensation is the conversion of vapor into liquid. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to condensation and evaporation from longwave heating	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. Condensation is the conversion of vapor into liquid. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""longwave"" means longwave radiation."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to condensation and evaporation from pressure change	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. Condensation is the conversion of vapor into liquid. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to condensation and evaporation from shortwave heating	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor.  In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to condensation and evaporation from turbulence	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. Condensation is the conversion of vapor into liquid. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to convective detrainment	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to heterogeneous nucleation	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a   single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Heterogeneous nucleation occurs when a small particle of a substance other than water acts asa freezing or condensation nucleus."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to homogeneous nucleation	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a   single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Homogeneous nucleation occurs when a small number of water molecules combine to form a freezing or condensation nucleus."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to melting from cloud ice	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mass fraction of stratiform cloud liquid water in air due to riming	"Mass fraction is used in the construction mass_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. It means the ratio of the mass of X to the mass of Y (including X).  A chemical species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. Riming is the rapid freezing of supercooled water onto a surface. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes).  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of middle atmosphere moles of carbon monoxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""middle_atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere and stratosphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO."
tendency of middle atmosphere moles of hcc140a	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""middle_atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere and stratosphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of HCC140a is CH3CCl3.  The IUPAC name for HCC 140a is 1,1,1-trichloroethane."
tendency of middle atmosphere moles of methane	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""middle_atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere and stratosphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of methane is CH4."
tendency of middle atmosphere moles of methyl bromide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""middle_atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere and stratosphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of methyl bromide is CH3Br."
tendency of middle atmosphere moles of methyl chloride	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""middle_atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere and stratosphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of methyl chloride is CH3Cl."
tendency of middle atmosphere moles of molecular hydrogen	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""middle_atmosphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere and stratosphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of molecular hydrogen is H2."
tendency of mole concentration of aragonite expressed as carbon in sea water due to biological production	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Aragonite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of aragonite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for calcite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
tendency of mole concentration of aragonite expressed as carbon in sea water due to dissolution	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Aragonite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of aragonite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for calcite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
tendency of mole concentration of calcite expressed as carbon in sea water due to biological production	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. Thechemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
tendency of mole concentration of calcite expressed as carbon in sea water due to dissolution	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. Thechemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
tendency of mole concentration of dissolved inorganic carbon in sea water due to biological processes	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of mole concentration of dissolved inorganic iron in sea water due to biological processes	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic iron"" means iron ions, in oxidation states of both Fe2+ and Fe3+, in solution."
tendency of mole concentration of dissolved inorganic nitrogen in sea water due to biological processes	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Inorganic nitrogen"" describes a family of chemical species which, in an ocean model, usually includes nitrite, nitrate and ammonium which act as nitrogennutrients. ""Inorganic nitrogen"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of mole concentration of dissolved inorganic phosphorus in sea water due to biological processes	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic phosphorus"" means the sum of all inorganic phosphorus in solution (including phosphate, hydrogen phosphate, dihydrogen phosphate, and phosphoric acid)."
tendency of mole concentration of dissolved inorganic silicon in sea water due to biological processes	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic silicon"" means the sum of all inorganic silicon in solution (including silicic acid and its first dissociated anion SiO(OH)3-)."
tendency of mole concentration of dissolved iron in sea water due to dissolution from inorganic particles	"Dissolution, remineralization and desorption of iron back to the dissolved phase  'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  namedby omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of dissolved iron in sea water due to grazing of phytoplankton	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis.  'Grazing of phytoplankton' means the grazing of phytoplankton by zooplankton."
tendency of mole concentration of dissolved iron in sea water due to scavenging by inorganic particles	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of iron in sea water due to biological production	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to grazing of phytoplankton	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Grazing of phytoplankton"" means the grazing of phytoplankton by zooplankton."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to net primary production	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (the rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example,  photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. In the oceans, carbon production per unit volume is often found at a number of depths at a given horizontal location. That quantity can then be integrated to calculate production per unit area at the location. Standard names for production per unit area use the term ""productivity"". ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to net primary production by calcareous phytoplankton	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. ""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (the rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example,  photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. In the oceans, carbon production per unit volume is often found at a number of depths at a given horizontal location. That quantity can then be integrated to calculate production per unit area at the location. Standard names for production per unit area use the term ""productivity"". ""Calcareous phytoplankton"" are phytoplankton that produce calcite. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate.   ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to net primary production by diatoms	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. ""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (the rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example,  photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. In the oceans, carbon production per unit volume is often found at a number of depths at a given horizontal location. That quantity can then be integrated to calculate production per unit area at the location. Standard names for production per unit area use the term ""productivity"". Diatoms are single-celled phytoplankton with an external skeleton made of silica. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to net primary production by diazotrophs	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. ""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (the rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example,  photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. In the oceans, carbon production per unit volume is often found at a number of depths at a given horizontal location. That quantity can then be integrated to calculate production per unit area at the location. Standard names for production per unit area use the term ""productivity"". In ocean modelling, diazotrophs are phytoplankton of the phylum cyanobacteria distinct from other phytoplankton groups in their ability to fix nitrogen gas in addition to nitrate and ammonium. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to net primary production by miscellaneous phytoplankton	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. ""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (the rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example,  photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. In the oceans, carbon production per unit volume is often found at a number of depths at a given horizontal location. That quantity can then be integrated to calculate production per unit area at the location. Standard names for production per unit area use the term ""productivity"". Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""Miscellaneous phytoplankton"" are all those phytoplankton that are not diatoms, diazotrophs, calcareous phytoplankton, picophytoplankton or other seperately named components of the phytoplankton population. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to net primary production by picophytoplankton	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (the rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example,  photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. In the oceans, carbon production per unit volume is often found at a number of depths at a given horizontal location. That quantity can then be integrated to calculate production per unit area at the location. Standard names for production per unit area use the term ""productivity"". Picophytoplankton are phytoplankton of less than 2 micrometers in size. Phytoplankton are autotrophic prokaryotic or eukaryotic algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to nitrate utilization	"Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Nitrate utilization"" means net primary production of carbon by phytoplankton based on nitrate alone. ""Production of carbon"" means the production of biomass expressed as the mass of carbon which it contains. Net primary production is the excess of gross primary production (the rate of synthesis of biomass from inorganic precursors) by autotrophs (""producers""), for example, photosynthesis in plants or phytoplankton, over the rate at which the autotrophs themselves respire some of this biomass. In the oceans, carbon production per unit volume is often found at a number of depths at a given horizontal location. That quantity can then be integrated to calculate production per unit area at the location. Standard names for production per unit area use the term ""productivity"". ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The chemical formula for the nitrate anion is NO3-."
tendency of mole concentration of particulate organic matter expressed as carbon in sea water due to remineralization	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Mole concentration means number of moles per unit volume, also called ""molarity"", and is used in the construction ""mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y"", where X is a material constituent of Y. A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as ""nitrogen"" or a phrase such as ""nox_expressed_as_nitrogen"". The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Remineralization is the degradation of organic matter into inorganic forms of carbon, nitrogen, phosphorus and other micronutrients, which consumes oxygen and releases energy."
tendency of mole concentration of silicon in sea water due to biological production	"'Mole concentration' means number of moles per unit volume, also called""molarity"", and is used in the construction mole_concentration_of_X_in_Y, whereX is a material constituent of Y.  A chemical or biological species denoted by X may be described by a single term such as 'nitrogen' or a phrase such as 'nox_expressed_as_nitrogen'. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of northward wind	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of northward wind due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of northward wind due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of northward wind due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of northward wind due to gravity wave drag	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
tendency of ocean barotropic streamfunction	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean eddy kinetic energy content due to parameterized eddy advection	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""ocean content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the bottom of the ocean. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection."
tendency of ocean mole content of aragonite expressed as carbon due to biological production	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Aragonite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of aragonite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for calcite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
tendency of ocean mole content of calcite expressed as carbon due to biological production	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The phrase 'expressed_as' is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Calcite is a mineral that is a polymorph of calcium carbonate. The chemical formula of calcite is CaCO3. Standard names also exist for aragonite, another polymorph of calcium carbonate."
tendency of ocean mole content of carbon due to runoff and sediment dissolution	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of termswhich together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean mole content of carbon due to sedimentation	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is asingle term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic carbon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" isthe term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic carbon due to biological processes	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is asingle term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species in solution, including carbon dioxide, carbonic acid and the carbonate and bicarbonate anions. ""Dissolved inorganic carbon"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic iron	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic iron"" means iron ions, in oxidation states of both Fe2+ and Fe3+, in solution."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic iron due to biological processes	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is asingle term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic iron"" means iron ions, in oxidation states of both Fe2+ and Fe3+, in solution."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic nitrogen	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Inorganic nitrogen"" describes a family of chemical species which, in an ocean model, usually includes nitrite, nitrate and ammonium which act as nitrogen nutrients. ""Inorganic nitrogen"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variableshould be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic nitrogen due to biological processes	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Inorganic nitrogen"" describes a family of chemical species which, in an ocean model, usually includes nitrite, nitrate and ammonium which act as nitrogen nutrients. ""Inorganic nitrogen"" is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models.  Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic phosphorus	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic phosphorus"" means the sum of all inorganic phosphorus in solution (including phosphate, hydrogen phosphate, dihydrogen phosphate, and phosphoric acid)."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic phosphorus due to biological processes	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic phosphorus"" means the sum of all inorganic phosphorus in solution (including phosphate, hydrogen phosphate, dihydrogen phosphate, and phosphoric acid)."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic silicon	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic silicon"" means the sum of all inorganic silicon in solution (including silicic acid and its first dissociated anion SiO(OH)3-)."
tendency of ocean mole content of dissolved inorganic silicon due to biological processes	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Dissolved inorganic silicon"" means the sum of all inorganic silicon in solution (including silicic acid and its first dissociated anion SiO(OH)3-)."
tendency of ocean mole content of elemental nitrogen due to denitrification and sedimentation	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is asingle term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. 'Denitrification' is the conversion of nitrate into gasesous compounds such as nitric oxide, nitrous oxide and molecular nitrogen which are then emitted to the atmosphere.  'Sedimentation' is the sinking of particulate matter to the floor of a body of water. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean mole content of elemental nitrogen due to deposition and fixation and runoff	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is asingle term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase. Deposition of nitrogen into the ocean is the sum of dry and wet depositionof nitrogen species onto the ocean surface from the atmosphere.  'Nitrogen fixation' means the production of ammonia from nitrogen gas. Organisms that fix nitrogen are termed 'diazotrophs'. Diazotrophic phytoplankton can fix atmospheric nitrogen, thus increasing the content of nitrogen in the ocean. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage.""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean mole content of elemental nitrogen due to fixation	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is asingle term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  'Nitrogen fixation' means the production of ammonia from nitrogen gas. Organisms that fix nitrogen are termed 'diazotrophs'. Diazotrophic phytoplankton can fix atmospheric nitrogen, thus increasing the content of nitrogen in the ocean. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean mole content of inorganic carbon	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species and is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute."
tendency of ocean mole content of inorganic carbon due to runoff and sediment dissolution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species and is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage."
tendency of ocean mole content of inorganic carbon due to sedimentation	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Inorganic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species and is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Sedimentation"" is the sinking of particulate matter to the floor of a body of water."
tendency of ocean mole content of iron due to biological production	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean mole content of iron due to deposition and runoff and sediment dissolution	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of termswhich together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean mole content of iron due to sedimentation	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean mole content of nitrogen due to biological production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Nitrogen"" summarizes all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
tendency of ocean mole content of organic carbon due to runoff and sediment dissolution	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Organic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species and is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Runoff is the liquid water which drains from land. If not specified, ""runoff"" refers to the sum of surface runoff and subsurface drainage."
tendency of ocean mole content of organic carbon due to sedimentation	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Organic carbon"" describes a family of chemical species and is the term used in standard names for all species belonging to the family that are represented within a given model. The list of individual species that are included in a quantity having a group chemical standard name can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Sedimentation"" is the sinking of particulate matter to the floor of a body of water."
tendency of ocean mole content of oxidized nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""ocean content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the bottom of the ocean. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Deposition of nitrogen into the ocean is the sum of dry and wet deposition of the considered species onto the ocean surface from the atmosphere. ""Oxidized nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state greater than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of ocean mole content of oxidized nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""ocean content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the bottom of the ocean. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""dry_deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling of the considered species onto the ocean surface from the atmosphere. ""Oxidized nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state greater than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of ocean mole content of oxidized nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""ocean content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the bottom of the ocean. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""wet_deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""Oxidized nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state greater than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, such as nitrogen monoxide (NO), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), dinitrogen pentoxide (N2O5), nitric acid (HNO3), nitrate (NO3-), peroxynitric acid (HNO4), bromine nitrate (BrONO2), chlorine nitrate (ClONO2) and organic nitrates (most notably peroxyacetyl nitrate, sometimes referred to as PAN, (CH3COO2NO2)), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of ocean mole content of phosphorus due to biological production	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
tendency of ocean mole content of reduced nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""ocean content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the bottom of the ocean. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Deposition of nitrogen into the ocean is the sum of dry and wet deposition of nitrogen species onto the ocean surface from the atmosphere. ""Reduced nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state less than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, primarily ammonium (NH4+) and ammonia (NH3), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of ocean mole content of reduced nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to dry deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""ocean content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the bottom of the ocean. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""dry_deposition"" is the sum of turbulent deposition and gravitational settling of the considered species onto the ocean surface from the atmosphere. ""Reduced nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state less than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, primarily ammonium (NH4+) and ammonia (NH3), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of ocean mole content of reduced nitrogen compounds expressed as nitrogen due to wet deposition	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""ocean content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the bottom of the ocean. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""wet_deposition"" means deposition by precipitation. ""Reduced nitrogen compounds"" means all chemical species containing nitrogen atoms with an oxidation state less than zero. Usually, particle bound and gaseous nitrogen compounds, primarily ammonium (NH4+) and ammonia (NH3), are included. The list of individual species that are included in this quantity can vary between models. Where possible, the data variable should be accompanied by a complete description of the species represented, for example, by using a comment attribute. The phrase ""expressed_as"" is used in the construction A_expressed_as_B, where B is a chemical constituent of A. It means that the quantity indicated by the standard name is calculated solely with respect to the B contained in A, neglecting all other chemical constituents of A."
tendency of ocean mole content of silicon due to biological production	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is asingle term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean potential energy content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean potential energy content due to background	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)  ""Due to background"" means caused by a time invariant imposed field which may be either constant over the globe or spatially varying, depending on the ocean model used. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of ocean potential energy content due to tides	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)  ""Due to tides"" means due to all astronomical gravity changes which manifest as tides.  No distinction is made between different tidal components. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of potential energy content of atmosphere layer due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)"
tendency of potential energy content of ocean layer due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)"
tendency of potential energy content of ocean layer due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Layer"" means any layer with upper and lower boundaries that have constant values in some vertical coordinate. There must be a vertical coordinate variable indicating the extent of the layer(s). If the layers are model layers, the vertical coordinate can be model_level_number, but it is recommended to specify a physical coordinate (in a scalar or auxiliary coordinate variable) as well. Potential energy is the sum of the gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the centripetal potential energy. (The geopotential is the specific potential energy.)"
tendency of sea ice amount due to basal melting	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of sea ice amount due to congelation ice accumulation	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Congelation ice"" means the freezing of sea water onto the underside of thin, new sea ice that has been formed by small areas of frazil ice crystals joining together into a continuous layer at the sea surface.  Congelation ice forms under calm water conditions; it thickens and stabilizes the layer of sea ice and produces a smooth bottom surface."
tendency of sea ice amount due to frazil ice accumulation in leads	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Frazil"" consists of needle like crystals of ice, typically between three and four millimeters in diameter, which form as sea water begins to freeze. Salt is expelled during the freezing process and frazil ice consists of nearly pure fresh water. Leads are stretches of open water within wider areas of sea ice."
tendency of sea ice amount due to lateral growth of ice floes	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  An ice floe is a flat expanse of sea ice, generally taken to be less than 10 km across.  ""Lateral growth of ice floe"" means the accumulation of ice at the extreme edges of the ice area."
tendency of sea ice amount due to snow conversion	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Snow to sea ice conversion"" occurs when the mass of snow accumulated on an area of sea ice is sufficient to cause the ice to become mostly submerged.  Waves can then wash over the ice and snow surface and freeze into a layer that becomes ""snow ice""."
tendency of sea ice amount due to surface melting	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of sea ice area fraction due to dynamics	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Sea ice area fraction is area of the sea surface occupied by sea ice. It is also called ""sea ice concentration"".  ""Sea ice dynamics"" refers to the motion of sea ice."
tendency of sea ice area fraction due to ridging	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X.  Sea ice area fraction is area of the sea surface occupied by sea ice. It is also called ""sea ice concentration"".  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  Sea ice ""ridging"" occurs in rough sea conditions.  The motion of the sea surface can cause areas of sea ice to deform and fold resulting in ridged upper and lower surfaces. The ridges can be as much as twenty metres thick if thick ice is deformed."
tendency of sea ice area fraction due to thermodynamics	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. Sea ice area fraction is area of the sea surface occupied by sea ice. It is also called ""sea ice concentration"".  ""Sea ice thermodynamics"" refers to the addition or subtraction of mass due to surface and basal fluxes."
tendency of sea ice thickness due to dynamics	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""Sea ice dynamics"" refers to the motion of sea ice."
tendency of sea ice thickness due to thermodynamics	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time."
tendency of sea surface height above mean sea level	"""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Height_above_X"" means the vertical distance above the named surface X. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. The standard name for the height of the sea surface above the geoid is sea_surface_height_above_geoid. The standard name for the height of the sea surface above the reference ellipsoid is sea_surface_height_above_reference_ellipsoid."
tendency of sea water alkalinity expressed as mole equivalent due to biological processes	"'sea_water_alkalinity_expressed_as_mole_equivalent' is the total alkalinity equivalent concentration (including carbonate, nitrogen, silicate, and borate components). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that thequantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X withrespect to time."
tendency of sea water conservative temperature expressed as heat content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. This tendency encompasses all processes that impact on the time changes for the heat content within a grid cell. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the conservative temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2."
tendency of sea water conservative temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized eddy advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the conservative temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water conservative temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized eddy dianeutral mixing	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the conservative temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Eddy dianeutral mixing"" means dianeutral mixing, i.e. mixing across neutral directions caused by the unresolved turbulent motion of eddies of all types (e.g., breaking gravity waves, boundary layer turbulence, etc.)."
tendency of sea water conservative temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the conservative temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water conservative temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized mesoscale eddy diffusion	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the conservative temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddy diffusive processes include diffusion along neutral directions in the interior of the ocean and horizontal diffusion in the surface boundary layer. The processes occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the conservative temperature of the sea water in the grid cell."
tendency of sea water conservative temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized submesoscale eddy advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the conservative temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized submesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of the order of 1km horizontally. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. There are also standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water conservative temperature expressed as heat content due to residual mean advection	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the conservative temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Conservative Temperature is defined as part of the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) which was adopted in 2010 by the International Oceanographic Commission (IOC). Conservative Temperature is specific potential enthalpy (which has the standard name sea_water_specific_potential_enthalpy) divided by a fixed value of the specific heat capacity of sea water, namely cp_0 = 3991.86795711963 J kg-1 K-1. Conservative Temperature is a more accurate measure of the ""heat content"" of sea water, by a factor of one hundred, than is potential temperature. Because of this, it can be regarded as being proportional to the heat content of sea water per unit mass. Reference: www.teos-10.org; McDougall, 2003 doi: 10.1175/1520-0485(2003)033<0945:PEACOV>2.0.CO;2. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The phrase ""residual_mean_advection"" refers to the sum of the model's resolved advective transport plus any parameterized advective transport. Parameterized advective transport includes processes such as parameterized mesoscale and submesoscale transport, as well as any other advectively parameterized transport. When the parameterized advective transport is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic, since the convergence of skew-fluxes are identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of advective fluxes."
tendency of sea water potential temperature expressed as heat content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. This tendency encompasses all processes that impact on the time changes for the heat content within a grid cell. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the potential temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure."
tendency of sea water potential temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized eddy advection	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the potential temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water potential temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized eddy dianeutral mixing	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the potential temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Eddy dianeutral mixing"" means dianeutral mixing, i.e. mixing across neutral directions caused by the unresolved turbulent motion of eddies of all types (e.g., breaking gravity waves, boundary layer turbulence, etc.)."
tendency of sea water potential temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the potential temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water potential temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized mesoscale eddy diffusion	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the potential temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddy diffusive processes include diffusion along neutral directions in the interior of the ocean and horizontal diffusion in the surface boundary layer. The processes occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks."
tendency of sea water potential temperature expressed as heat content due to parameterized submesoscale eddy advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the potential temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized submesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of the order of 1km horizontally. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. There are also standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water potential temperature expressed as heat content due to residual mean advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The phrase ""expressed_as_heat_content"" means that this quantity is calculated as the specific heat capacity times density of sea water multiplied by the potential temperature of the sea water in the grid cell. Potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air or sea water would have if moved adiabatically to sea level pressure. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The phrase ""residual_mean_advection"" refers to the sum of the model's resolved advective transport plus any parameterized advective transport. Parameterized advective transport includes processes such as parameterized mesoscale and submesoscale transport, as well as any other advectively parameterized transport. When the parameterized advective transport is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic, since the convergence of skew-fluxes are identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of advective fluxes."
tendency of sea water salinity	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
tendency of sea water salinity due to advection	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
tendency of sea water salinity due to horizontal mixing	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Horizontal mixing"" means any horizontal transport other than by advection and bolus advection, usually represented as horizontal diffusion in ocean models. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
tendency of sea water salinity due to parameterized eddy advection	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection. Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
tendency of sea water salinity due to sea ice thermodynamics	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Sea ice thermodynamics"" refers to the addition or subtraction of sea ice mass due to surface and basal fluxes. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
tendency of sea water salinity due to vertical mixing	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Vertical mixing"" means any vertical transport other than by advection and bolus advection, represented by a combination of vertical diffusion, turbulent mixing and convection in ocean models. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Sea water salinity is the salt content of sea water, often on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978. However, the unqualified term 'salinity' is generic and does not necessarily imply any particular method of calculation. The units of salinity are dimensionless and normally given as 1e-3 or 0.001 i.e. parts per thousand. There are standard names for the more precisely defined salinity quantities: sea_water_knudsen_salinity, S_K (used for salinity observations between 1901 and 1966), sea_water_cox_salinity, S_C (used for salinity observations between 1967 and 1977), sea_water_practical_salinity, S_P (used for salinity observations from 1978 to the present day), sea_water_absolute_salinity, S_A, sea_water_preformed_salinity, S_*, and sea_water_reference_salinity. Practical Salinity is reported on the Practical Salinity Scale of 1978 (PSS-78), and is usually based on the electrical conductivity of sea water in observations since the 1960s. Conversion of data between the observed scales follows: S_P = (S_K - 0.03) * (1.80655 / 1.805) and S_P = S_C, however the accuracy of the latter is dependent on whether chlorinity or conductivity was used to determine the S_C value, with this inconsistency driving the development of PSS-78. The more precise standard names should be used where appropriate for both modelled and observed salinities. In particular, the use of sea_water_salinity to describe salinity observations made from 1978 onwards is now deprecated in favor of the term sea_water_practical_salinity which is the salinity quantity stored by national data centers for post-1978 observations. The only exception to this is where the observed salinities are definitely known not to be recorded on the Practical Salinity Scale. The unit ""parts per thousand"" was used for sea_water_knudsen_salinity and sea_water_cox_salinity."
tendency of sea water salinity expressed as salt content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. This tendency encompasses all processes that impact on the time changes for the salt content within a grid cell."
tendency of sea water salinity expressed as salt content due to parameterized eddy advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water salinity expressed as salt content due to parameterized eddy dianeutral mixing	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Eddy dianeutral mixing"" means dianeutral mixing, i.e. mixing across neutral directions caused by the unresolved turbulent motion of eddies of all types (e.g., breaking gravity waves, boundary layer turbulence, etc.)."
tendency of sea water salinity expressed as salt content due to parameterized mesoscale eddy advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddy advection is represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme. There are also standard names for parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water salinity expressed as salt content due to parameterized mesoscale eddy diffusion	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddy diffusive processes include diffusion along neutral directions in the interior of the ocean and horizontal diffusion in the surface boundary layer. The processes occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks."
tendency of sea water salinity expressed as salt content due to parameterized submesoscale eddy advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized submesoscale eddy advection occurs on a spatial scale of the order of 1km horizontally. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. There are also standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection which, along with parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection, contributes to the total parameterized eddy advection. Additionally, when the parameterized advective process is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic. The convergence of a skew-flux is identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of an advective flux, making their tendencies the same."
tendency of sea water salinity expressed as salt content due to residual mean advection	"The phrase ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The phrase ""residual_mean_advection"" refers to the sum of the model's resolved advective transport plus any parameterized advective transport. Parameterized advective transport includes processes such as parameterized mesoscale and submesoscale transport, as well as any other advectively parameterized transport. When the parameterized advective transport is represented in the model as a skew-diffusion rather than an advection, then the parameterized skew diffusion should be included in this diagnostic, since the convergence of skew-fluxes are identical (in the continuous formulation) to the convergence of advective fluxes."
tendency of sea water temperature	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
tendency of sea water temperature due to advection	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
tendency of sea water temperature due to horizontal mixing	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Horizontal mixing"" means any horizontal transport other than by advection and bolus advection, usually represented as horizontal diffusion in ocean models. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
tendency of sea water temperature due to parameterized eddy advection	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized eddy advection in an ocean model means the part due to a scheme representing parameterized eddy-induced advective effects not included in the resolved model velocity field. Parameterized eddy advection can be represented on various spatial scales and there are standard names for parameterized_mesoscale_eddy_advection and parameterized_submesoscale_eddy_advection which both contribute to the total parameterized eddy advection. Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
tendency of sea water temperature due to vertical mixing	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Vertical mixing"" means any vertical transport other than by advection and bolus advection, represented by a combination of vertical diffusion, turbulent mixing and convection in ocean models. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Sea water temperature is the in situ temperature of the sea water. For observed data, depending on the period during which the observation was made, the measured in situ temperature was recorded against standard ""scales"". These historical scales include the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1948 (IPTS-48; 1948-1967), the International Practical Temperature Scale of 1968 (IPTS-68, Barber, 1969; 1968-1989) and the International Temperature Scale of 1990 (ITS-90, Saunders 1990; 1990 onwards). Conversion of data between these scales follows t68 = t48 - (4.4 x 10e-6) * t48(100 - t - 48); t90 = 0.99976 * t68. Observations made prior to 1948 (IPTS-48) have not been documented and therefore a conversion cannot be certain. Differences between t90 and t68 can be up to 0.01 at temperatures of 40 C and above; differences of 0.002-0.007 occur across the standard range of ocean temperatures (-10 - 30 C). The International Equation of State of Seawater 1980 (EOS-80, UNESCO, 1981) and the Practical Salinity Scale (PSS-78) were both based on IPTS-68, while the Thermodynamic Equation of Seawater 2010 (TEOS-10) is based on ITS-90. References: Barber, 1969, doi: 10.1088/0026-1394/5/2/001; UNESCO, 1981; Saunders, 1990, WOCE Newsletter, 10, September 1990."
tendency of specific humidity	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
tendency of specific humidity due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
tendency of specific humidity due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
tendency of specific humidity due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
tendency of specific humidity due to model physics	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""specific"" means per unit mass. Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air."
tendency of specific humidity due to stratiform cloud and precipitation and boundary layer mixing	"Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""specific"" means per unit mass."
tendency of specific humidity due to stratiform precipitation	"Specific humidity is the mass fraction of water vapor in (moist) air. In an atmosphere model, stratiform cloud is that produced by large-scale convergence (not the convection schemes). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Specific"" means per unit mass."
tendency of surface air pressure	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation."
tendency of surface snow amount	"The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. ""Amount"" means mass per unit area. Surface amount refers to the amount on the ground, excluding that on the plant or vegetation canopy."
tendency of troposphere moles of carbon monoxide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""troposphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of carbon monoxide is CO."
tendency of troposphere moles of hcc140a	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""troposphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of HCC140a is CH3CCl3.  The IUPAC name for HCC140a is 1,1,1-trichloroethane."
tendency of troposphere moles of hcfc22	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""troposphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of HCFC22 is CHClF2.  The IUPAC name for HCFC 22 is chloro-difluoro-methane."
tendency of troposphere moles of methane	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""troposphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of methane is CH4. Methane is a member of the group of hydrocarbons known as alkanes.  There are standard names for the alkane group as well as for some of the individual species."
tendency of troposphere moles of methyl bromide	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""troposphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of methyl bromide is CH3Br. The IUPAC name for methyl bromide is bromomethane."
tendency of troposphere moles of methyl chloride	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""troposphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of methyl chloride is CH3Cl. The IUPAC name for methyl chloride is chloromethane."
tendency of troposphere moles of molecular hydrogen	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time.  ""troposphere_moles_of_X"" means the total number of moles of X contained in the troposphere, i.e, summed over that part of the atmospheric column and over the entire globe.  The chemical formula of molecular hydrogen is H2."
tendency of upward air velocity	"""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Upward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector."
tendency of upward air velocity due to advection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Upward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector."
tendency of wind speed due to convection	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) The wind speed is the magnitude of the wind velocity."
tendency of wind speed due to gravity wave drag	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""tendency_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to time. Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) The wind speed is the magnitude of the wind velocity."
thermal energy content of surface snow	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. Thermal energy is the total vibrational energy, kinetic and potential, of all the molecules and atoms in a substance. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
thermodynamic phase of cloud water particles at cloud top	"""cloud_top"" refers to the top of the highest cloud. ""Water"" means water in all phases. A variable with the standard name of thermodynamic_phase_of_cloud_water_particles_at_cloud_top contains integers which can be translated to strings using flag_values and flag_meanings attributes. Alternatively, the data variable may contain strings which indicate the thermodynamic phase. These strings are standardised. Values must be chosen from the following list: liquid; ice; mixed; clear_sky; super_cooled_liquid_water; unknown."
thermosteric change in mean sea level	"Thermosteric sea level change is the part caused by change in sea water density due to change in temperature i.e. thermal expansion. ""Mean sea level"" means the time mean of sea surface elevation at a given location over an arbitrary period sufficient to eliminate the tidal signals. Zero mean sea level change is an arbitrary level. The sum of the quantities with standard names thermosteric_change_in_mean_sea_level and halosteric_change_in_mean_sea_level has the standard name steric_change_in_mean_sea_level."
thermosteric change in sea surface height	"""Sea surface height"" is a time-varying quantity. The thermosteric change in sea surface height is the change in height that a water column having standard temperature zero degrees Celsius would undergo when its temperature is changed to the observed value. The sum of the quantities with standard names thermosteric_change_in_sea_surface_height and halosteric_change_in_sea_surface_height is the total steric change in the water column height, which has the standard name of steric_change_in_sea_surface_height."
thickness of convective rainfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction thickness_of_[X_]rainfall_amount means the accumulated ""depth"" of rainfall i.e. the thickness of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area as the rainfall amount."
thickness of convective snowfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction thickness_of_[X_]snowfall_amount means the accumulated ""depth"" of snow which fell i.e. the thickness of the layer of snow at its own density. There are corresponding standard names for liquid water equivalent (lwe) thickness."
thickness of liquid water cloud	"""Thickness"" means the vertical extent of a layer."
thickness of rainfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction thickness_of_[X_]rainfall_amount means the accumulated ""depth"" of rainfall i.e. the thickness of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area as the rainfall amount."
thickness of snowfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction thickness_of_[X_]snowfall_amount means the accumulated ""depth"" of snow which fell i.e. the thickness of the layer of snow at its own density. There are corresponding standard names for liquid water equivalent (lwe) thickness."
thickness of stratiform rainfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction thickness_of_[X_]rainfall_amount means the accumulated ""depth"" of rainfall i.e. the thickness of a layer of liquid water having the same mass per unit area as the rainfall amount.  Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud."
thickness of stratiform snowfall amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. The construction thickness_of_[X_]snowfall_amount means the accumulated ""depth"" of snow which fell i.e. the thickness of the layer of snow at its own density. There are corresponding standard names for liquid water equivalent (lwe) thickness.  Stratiform precipitation, whether liquid or frozen, is precipitation that formed in stratiform cloud."
thunderstorm probability	"""probability_of_X"" means the chance that X is true or of at least one occurrence of X. Space and time coordinates must be used to indicate the area and time-interval to which a probability applies."
time of maximum flood depth	The quantity with standard name time_of_maximum_flood_depth is the time elapsed between the breaking of a levee (origin of flood water simulation) and the instant when the flood depth reaches its maximum during the simulation for a given point in space. Flood water is water that covers land which is normally not covered by water.
time sample difference due to collocation	time_sample_difference_due_to_collocation is the difference in time between two events that are collocated. Two events are deemed to be collocated based on some set of spatial, temporal, and viewing geometry criteria.
time when flood water falls below threshold	The quantity with standard name time_when_flood_water_falls_below_threshold is the time elapsed between the breaking of a levee (origin of flood water simulation) and the instant when the depth falls below a given threshold for the last time, having already risen to its maximum depth, at a given point in space. If a threshold is supplied, it should be specified by associating a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the data variable and giving the coordinate variable a standard name of flood_water_thickness. The values of the coordinate variable are the threshold values for the corresponding subarrays of the data variable. If no threshold is specified, its value is taken to be zero. Flood water is water that covers land which is normally not covered by water.
time when flood water rises above threshold	The quantity with standard name time_when_flood_water_rises_above_threshold is the time elapsed between the breaking of a levee (origin of flood water simulation) and the instant when the depth first rises above a given threshold at a given point in space. If a threshold is supplied, it should be specified by associating a coordinate variable or scalar coordinate variable with the data variable and giving the coordinate variable a standard name of flood_water_thickness. The values of the coordinate variable are the threshold values for the corresponding subarrays of the data variable. If no threshold is specified, its value is taken to be zero. Flood water is water that covers land which is normally not covered by water.
toa adjusted longwave forcing	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. Adjusted forcing is the radiative flux change caused by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.) after allowance for stratospheric temperature adjustment."
toa adjusted radiative forcing	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere. Adjusted forcing is the radiative flux change caused by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.) after allowance for stratospheric temperature adjustment."
toa adjusted shortwave forcing	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. Adjusted forcing is the radiative flux change caused by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.) after allowance for stratospheric temperature adjustment."
toa bidirectional reflectance	"""Bidirectional_reflectance"" depends on the angles of incident and measured radiation. Reflectance is the ratio of the energy of the reflected to the incident radiation.  A coordinate variable of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency can be used to specify the wavelength or frequency, respectively, of the radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. toa_bidirectional_reflectance includes a factor to account for the cosine of the solar zenith angle but does not include any integration over solid angle."
toa brightness temperature	"The brightness temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area.  ""toa"" means top of atmosphere."
toa brightness temperature assuming clear sky	"The brightness temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area.  A phrase assuming_condition  indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all  aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition.  ""toa"" means top of atmosphere."
toa brightness temperature bias at standard scene due to intercalibration	"toa_brightness_temperature_bias_at_standard_scene_due_to_intercalibration is the difference between top-of-atmosphere (TOA) brightness temperature
of the reference sensor and TOA brightness temperature of the
monitored sensor. This TOA brightness temperature difference is a measure of the calibration difference between the monitored and reference sensors. The standard scene is a target area with typical Earth surface and atmospheric conditions that is accepted as a reference. Brightness temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area at a given wavenumber. TOA brightness temperature of the standard scene is calculated using a radiative transfer simulation for a given viewing geometry. The resultant top-of-atmosphere spectral radiance is then integrated with each sensor's spectral response function and converted to equivalent brightness temperature. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
toa brightness temperature of standard scene	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The brightness temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area at a given wavenumber. The standard scene is a target area with typical Earth surface and atmospheric conditions that is accepted as a reference. The toa radiance of the standard scene is calculated using a radiative transfer model for a given viewing geometry. The resultant toa spectral radiance is then integrated with a sensor's spectral response function and converted to equivalent brightness temperature."
toa cloud radiative effect	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere.  Cloud radiative effect is also commonly known as ""cloud radiative forcing"".  It is the sum of the quantities with standard names toa_shortwave_cloud_radiative_effect and toa_longwave_cloud_radiative_effect."
toa incoming shortwave flux	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA incoming shortwave flux is the radiative flux from the sun i.e. the ""downwelling"" TOA shortwave flux. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa instantaneous longwave forcing	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. Instantaneous forcing is the radiative flux change caused instantaneously by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.)."
toa instantaneous radiative forcing	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere. Instantaneous forcing is the radiative flux change caused instantaneously by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.)."
toa instantaneous shortwave forcing	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. Instantaneous forcing is the radiative flux change caused instantaneously by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.)."
toa longwave cloud radiative effect	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere.  ""Longwave"" means longwave radiation.  Cloud radiative effect is also commonly known as ""cloud radiative forcing"".  It is the difference in radiative flux resulting from the presence of clouds, i.e. it is the difference between toa_outgoing_longwave_flux_assuming_clear_sky and toa_outgoing_longwave_flux."
toa net downward longwave flux	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere.   ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa net downward longwave flux assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa net downward radiative flux	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa net downward shortwave flux	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa net downward shortwave flux assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa net upward longwave flux	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa net upward longwave flux assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa net upward shortwave flux	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Net upward radiation is the difference between radiation from below (upwelling) and radiation from above (downwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa outgoing longwave flux	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing longwave flux is the upwelling thermal radiative flux, often called the ""outgoing longwave radiation"" or ""OLR"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa outgoing longwave flux assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing longwave flux is the upwelling thermal radiative flux, often called the ""outgoing longwave radiation"" or ""OLR"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa outgoing radiance per unit wavelength	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing radiance is the upwelling radiance, i.e., toward outer space. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa outgoing radiance per unit wavenumber	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing radiance is the upwelling radiance, i.e., toward outer space. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa outgoing radiance per unit wavenumber mean within collocation scene	"toa_outgoing_radiance_per_unit_wavenumber_mean_within_collocation_scene is an average of observations of the quantity with standard name toa_outgoing_radiance_per_unit_wavenumber from a sensor's adjacent field-of-views within a collocation scene. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing radiance is the upwelling radiance, i.e., toward outer space. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The ""collocation scene"" is a grouping of a sensor's adjacent field-of-views centered on a collocation target. The size of the collocation scene is typically about twice that of the collocation target. The ""collocation target"" is an area on the Earth's surface at which observations from at least two sensors are collected. Its size is defined by the sensor with the largest field-of-view footprint. Two events are deemed to be collocated based on some set of spatial, temporal, and viewing geometry criteria."
toa outgoing radiance per unit wavenumber mean within collocation target	"toa_outgoing_radiance_per_unit_wavenumber_mean_within_collocation_target is an average of observations of the quantity with standard name toa_outgoing_radiance_per_unit_wavenumber from a sensor's adjacent field-of-views within a collocation target. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing radiance is the upwelling radiance, i.e., toward outer space. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The ""collocation target"" is an area on the Earth's surface at which observations from at least two sensors are collected. Its size is defined by the sensor with the largest field-of-view footprint. Two events are deemed to be collocated based on some set of spatial, temporal, and viewing geometry criteria."
toa outgoing radiance per unit wavenumber stdev within collocation scene	"toa_outgoing_radiance_per_unit_wavenumber_stdev_within_collocation_scene is the standard deviation of observations of the quantity with standard name toa_outgoing_radiance_per_unit_wavenumber from a sensor's adjacent field-of-views within a collocation scene. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing radiance is the upwelling radiance, i.e., toward outer space. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The ""collocation scene"" is a grouping of a sensor's adjacent field-of-views centered on a collocation target. The size of the collocation scene is typically about twice that of the collocation target. The ""collocation target"" is an area on the Earth's surface at which observations from at least two sensors are collected. Its size is defined by the sensor with the largest field-of-view footprint. Two events are deemed to be collocated based on some set of spatial, temporal, and viewing geometry criteria."
toa outgoing radiance per unit wavenumber stdev within collocation target	"toa_outgoing_radiance_per_unit_wavenumber_stdev_within_collocation_target is the standard deviation of observations of the quantity with standard name toa_outgoing_radiance_per_unit_wavenumber from a sensor's adjacent field-of-views within a collocation target. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing radiance is the upwelling radiance, i.e., toward outer space. Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The ""collocation target"" is an area on the Earth's surface at which observations from at least two sensors are collected. Its size is defined by the sensor with the largest field-of-view footprint. Two events are deemed to be collocated based on some set of spatial, temporal, and viewing geometry criteria."
toa outgoing shortwave flux	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing shortwave flux is the reflected and scattered solar radiative flux i.e. the ""upwelling"" TOA shortwave flux, sometimes called the ""outgoing shortwave radiation"" or ""OSR"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa outgoing shortwave flux assuming clear sky	"A phrase assuming_condition indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""toa"" means top of atmosphere. The TOA outgoing shortwave flux is the reflected and scattered solar radiative flux i.e. the ""upwelling"" TOA shortwave flux, sometimes called the ""outgoing shortwave radiation"" or ""OSR"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
toa shortwave cloud radiative effect	"""toa"" means top of atmosphere.  ""Shortwave"" means shortwave radiation.  Cloud radiative effect is also commonly known as ""cloud radiative forcing"".  It is the difference in radiative flux resulting from the presence of clouds, i.e.  the difference between toa_net_downward_shortwave_flux and toa_net_downward_shortwave_flux_assuming_clear_sky."
tracer lifetime	The quantity with standard name tracer_lifetime is the total length of time a passive tracer exists within a medium. Passive tracers are used in models to study processes such as transport and deposition.
transpiration amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area."
transpiration flux	"In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
tropical cyclone eye brightness temperature	"""tropical_cyclone_eye_brightness_temperature"" means the warmest  brightness temperature value in the eye region of a tropical cyclone (0 - 24 km from the storm center) derived using the Advanced Dvorak Technique, based on satellite observations. Reference: Olander, T. L., & Velden, C. S., The Advanced Dvorak Technique: Continued Development of an Objective Scheme to Estimate Tropical Cyclone Intensity Using Geostationary Infrared Satellite Imagery (2007).  American Meterorological Society Weather and Forecasting, 22, 287-298. The brightness temperature of a body is the temperature of a black body which radiates the same power per unit solid angle per unit area."
tropical cyclone maximum sustained wind speed	"""tropical_cyclone_maximum_sustained_wind_speed"" means the maximum sustained wind speed of a tropical cyclone, sustained over a period of one minute at the surface of the earth, derived using the Advanced Dvorak Technique based on satellite observations. Reference: Olander, T. L., & Velden, C. S., The Advanced Dvorak Technique: Continued Development of an Objective Scheme to Estimate Tropical Cyclone Intensity Using Geostationary Infrared Satellite Imagery (2007). American Meterorological Society Weather and Forecasting, 22, 287-298."
tropopause adjusted longwave forcing	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Adjusted forcing is the radiative flux change caused by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.) after allowance for stratospheric temperature adjustment."
tropopause adjusted radiative forcing	Adjusted forcing is the radiative flux change caused by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.) after allowance for stratospheric temperature adjustment.
tropopause adjusted shortwave forcing	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Adjusted forcing is the radiative flux change caused by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.) after allowance for stratospheric temperature adjustment."
tropopause air pressure	Air pressure is the force per unit area which would be exerted when the moving gas molecules of which the air is composed strike a theoretical surface of any orientation.
tropopause air temperature	Air temperature is the bulk temperature of the air, not the surface (skin) temperature.
tropopause altitude	Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level.
tropopause downwelling longwave flux	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
tropopause instantaneous longwave forcing	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Instantaneous forcing is the radiative flux change caused instantaneously by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.)."
tropopause instantaneous radiative forcing	Instantaneous forcing is the radiative flux change caused instantaneously by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.).
tropopause instantaneous shortwave forcing	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Instantaneous forcing is the radiative flux change caused instantaneously by an imposed change in radiative forcing agent (greenhouse gases, aerosol, solar radiation, etc.)."
tropopause net downward longwave flux	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
tropopause net downward shortwave flux	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward). Net downward radiation is the difference between radiation from above (downwelling) and radiation from below (upwelling). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
tropopause upwelling shortwave flux	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
troposphere mole content of bromine monoxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""troposphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the tropopause. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for bromine_monoxide is BrO."
troposphere mole content of formaldehyde	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""troposphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the tropopause. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for formaldehyde is CH2O. The IUPAC name for formaldehyde is methanal."
troposphere mole content of glyoxal	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""troposphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the tropopause. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for glyoxal is CHOCHO. The IUPAC name for glyoxal is ethanedial."
troposphere mole content of iodine monoxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""troposphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the tropopause. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for iodine_monoxide is IO."
troposphere mole content of nitrogen dioxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""troposphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the tropopause. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for nitrogen_dioxide is NO2."
troposphere mole content of ozone	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""troposphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the tropopause. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for ozone is O3. The IUPAC name for ozone is trioxygen."
troposphere mole content of sulfur dioxide	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. The ""troposphere content"" of a quantity refers to the vertical integral from the surface to the tropopause. For the content between specified levels in the atmosphere, standard names including content_of_atmosphere_layer are used. The chemical formula for suflur_dioxide is SO2."
turbulent mixing length of sea water	"""Turbulent mixing length"" is used in models to describe the average distance over which a fluid parcel can travel while retaining properties that allow the parcel to be distinguished from its immediate environonment. ""Turbulent mixing"" means chaotic fluctuations of the fluid flow."
ultraviolet index	"The ""Ultraviolet Index"" (UVI) is a measure of the amount of solar ultraviolet radiation that reaches the surface of the earth depending on factors such as time of day and cloud cover. It is often used to alert the public of the need to limit sun exposure and use sun creams to protect the skin. Each point on the Index scale is equivalent to 25 mW m-2 of UV radiation (reference: Australian Bureau of Meteorology, http://www.bom.gov.au/uv/about_uv_index.shtml). The UVI range is expressed as a numeric value from 0 to 20 and sometimes graphically as bands of color indicating the attendant risk of skin damage. A UVI of 0-2 is described as 'Low' (represented graphically in green); a UVI of 11 or greater is described as ""Extreme"" (represented graphically in purple). The higher the UVI, the greater the potential health risk to humans and the less time it takes for harm to occur. To specify the amount of cloud cover at which the data variable applies, provide a scalar coordinate variable with standard name ""cloud_area_fraction"". Standard names are also defined for the quantities ultraviolet_index_assuming_clear_sky and ultraviolet_index_assuming_overcast_sky."
ultraviolet index assuming clear sky	"The ""Ultraviolet Index"" (UVI) is a measure of the amount of solar ultraviolet radiation that reaches the surface of the earth depending on factors such as time of day and cloud cover. It is often used to alert the public of the need to limit sun exposure and use sun creams to protect the skin. Each point on the Index scale is equivalent to 25 mW m-2 of UV radiation (reference: Australian Bureau of Meteorology, http://www.bom.gov.au/uv/about_uv_index.shtml). The UVI range is expressed as a numeric value from 0 to 20 and sometimes graphically as bands of color indicating the attendant risk of skin damage. A UVI of 0-2 is described as 'Low' (represented graphically in green); a UVI of 11 or greater is described as ""Extreme"" (represented graphically in purple). The higher the UVI, the greater the potential health risk to humans and the less time it takes for harm to occur. A phrase ""assuming_condition"" indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. Standard names are also defined for the quantities ultraviolet_index and ultraviolet_index_assuming_overcast_sky."
ultraviolet index assuming overcast sky	"The ""Ultraviolet Index"" (UVI) is a measure of the amount of solar ultraviolet radiation that reaches the surface of the earth depending on factors such as time of day and cloud cover. It is often used to alert the public of the need to limit sun exposure and use sun creams to protect the skin. Each point on the Index scale is equivalent to 25 mW m-2 of UV radiation (reference: Australian Bureau of Meteorology, http://www.bom.gov.au/uv/about_uv_index.shtml). The UVI range is expressed as a numeric value from 0 to 20 and sometimes graphically as bands of color indicating the attendant risk of skin damage. A UVI of 0-2 is described as 'Low' (represented graphically in green); a UVI of 11 or greater is described as ""Extreme"" (represented graphically in purple). The higher the UVI, the greater the potential health risk to humans and the less time it takes for harm to occur. A phrase ""assuming_condition"" indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the circumstances specified by the condition. ""Overcast"" means a fractional sky cover of 95% or more when at least a portion of this amount is attributable to clouds or obscuring phenomena (such as haze, dust, smoke, fog, etc.) aloft. (Reference: AMS Glossary: http://glossary.ametsoc.org/wiki/Main_Page). Standard names are also defined for the quantities ultraviolet_index and ultraviolet_index_assuming_clear_sky."
upward air velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Upward air velocity is the vertical component of the 3D air velocity vector. The standard name downward_air_velocity may be used for a vector component with the opposite sign convention."
upward dry static energy flux due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). Dry static energy is the sum of enthalpy and potential energy (itself the sum of gravitational and centripetal potential energy). Enthalpy can be written either as (1) CpT, where Cp is heat capacity at constant pressure, T is absolute temperature, or (2) U+pV, where U is internal energy, p is pressure and V is volume. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward eastward momentum flux in air due to nonorographic eastward gravity waves	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Upward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor. An upward eastward momentum flux is an upward flux of eastward momentum, which accelerates the upper medium eastward and the lower medium westward.  Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The total upward eastward momentum flux due to gravity waves is the sum of the fluxes due to orographic gravity waves and nonorographic waves. The upward eastward momentum flux due to orographic gravity waves has the standard name upward_eastward_momentum_flux_in_air_due_to_orographic_gravity_waves. The total upward eastward momentum flux due to nonorographic gravity waves is the sum of the fluxes due to eastward and westward propagating waves. The latter has the standard name upward_eastward_momentum_flux_in_air_due_to_nonorographic_westward_gravity_waves."
upward eastward momentum flux in air due to nonorographic westward gravity waves	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  ""Upward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor. An upward eastward momentum flux is an upward flux of eastward momentum, which accelerates the upper medium eastward and the lower medium westward.  Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The total upward eastward momentum flux due to gravity waves is the sum of the fluxes due to orographic gravity waves and nonorographic waves. The upward eastward momentum flux due to orographic gravity waves has the standard name upward_eastward_momentum_flux_in_air_due_to_orographic_gravity_waves. The total upward eastward momentum flux due to nonorographic gravity waves is the sum of the fluxes due to eastward and westward propagating waves. The former has the standard name upward_eastward_momentum_flux_in_air_due_to_nonorographic_eastward _gravity_waves."
upward eastward momentum flux in air due to orographic gravity waves	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  ""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward).  ""Upward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor. An upward eastward momentum flux is an upward flux of eastward momentum, which accelerates the upper medium eastward and the lower medium westward.  Momentum flux is dimensionally equivalent to stress and pressure.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The total upward eastward momentum flux due to gravity waves is the sum of the fluxes due to orographic gravity waves and nonorographic waves. The total upward eastward momentum flux due to nonorographic gravity waves is the sum of the fluxes due to eastward and westward propagating waves. These quantities have the standard names upward_eastward_momentum_flux_in_air_due_to_nonorographic_eastward_gravity_waves and upward_eastward_momentum_flux_in_air_due_to_nonorographic_westward_gravity_waves, respectively."
upward eastward stress at sea ice base	"""Eastward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed eastward (negative westward). ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). ""Upward eastward"" indicates the ZX component of a tensor. An upward eastward stress is an upward flux of eastward momentum, which accelerates the upper medium eastward and the lower medium westward."
upward eliassen palm flux in air	"""Eliassen Palm flux"" is a widely used vector in the meridional plane, and the divergence of this flux appears as a forcing in the Transformed Eulerian mean formulation of the zonal mean zonal wind equation.  ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward)."
upward geothermal heat flux at ground level in land ice	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. ""ground_level"" means the land surface (including beneath snow, ice and surface water, if any). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The quantity with standard name upward_geothermal_heat_flux_at_ground_level_in_land_ice is the upward heat flux at the interface between the ice and bedrock. It does not include any heat flux from the ocean into an ice shelf."
upward geothermal heat flux at sea floor	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward heat flux at ground level in snow	"ground_level means the land surface (beneath the snow and surface water, if any). ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward heat flux at ground level in soil	"ground_level means the land surface (beneath the snow and surface water, if any). ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward heat flux in air	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The vertical heat flux in air is the sum of all heat fluxes i.e. radiative, latent and sensible. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward heat flux in sea water due to convection	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward latent heat flux in air	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The latent heat flux is the exchange of heat across a surface on account of evaporation and condensation (including sublimation and deposition). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward mass flux of air	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward northward stress at sea ice base	"""Northward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed northward (negative southward). ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). ""Upward northward"" indicates the ZY component of a tensor. An upward northward stress is an upward flux of northward momentum, which accelerates the upper medium northward and the lower medium southward."
upward ocean mass transport	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward)."
upward sea ice basal heat flux	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The sea ice basal heat flux is the vertical heat flux (apart from radiation i.e. ""diffusive"") in sea water at the base of the sea ice. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward sea water velocity	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward)."
upward sea water velocity due to parameterized mesoscale eddies	"A velocity is a vector quantity. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Parameterized mesoscale eddies occur on a spatial scale of many tens of kilometres and an evolutionary time of weeks. Reference: James C. McWilliams 2016, Submesoscale currents in the ocean, Proceedings of the Royal Society A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences, volume 472, issue 2189. DOI: 10.1098/rspa.2016.0117. Parameterized mesoscale eddies are represented in ocean models using schemes such as the Gent-McWilliams scheme."
upward sensible heat flux in air	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). The sensible heat flux, also called ""turbulent"" heat flux, is the exchange of heat caused by the motion of air. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward upward derivative of geopotential	"A quantity with standard name Xward_Yward_derivative_of_geopotential is a second spatial derivative of geopotential in the direction specified by X and Y, i.e., d2P/dXdY. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). ""component_derivative_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be ""northward"", ""southward"", ""eastward"", ""westward"", ""x"" or ""y"". The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, in the case where they are not true longitude and latitude."
upward water vapor flux in air	"""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward water vapor flux in air due to diffusion	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upward x stress at sea ice base	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward)."
upward y stress at sea ice base	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward)."
upwelling longwave flux in air	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upwelling longwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"".  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"".  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  A phrase assuming_condition  indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all  aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition.  ""longwave"" means longwave radiation."
upwelling longwave radiance in air	"""longwave"" means longwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
upwelling radiance per unit wavelength in air	"Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
upwelling radiative flux per unit wavelength in air	"Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
upwelling radiative flux per unit wavelength in sea water	"Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. A coordinate variable for radiation wavelength should be given the standard name radiation_wavelength."
upwelling shortwave flux in air	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
upwelling shortwave flux in air assuming clear sky	"Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"".  When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"".  In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"".  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  A phrase assuming_condition  indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all  aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition.  ""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation."
upwelling shortwave radiance in air	"""shortwave"" means shortwave radiation. Upwelling radiation is radiation from below. It does not mean ""net upward"". Radiance is the radiative flux in a particular direction, per unit of solid angle. The direction towards which it is going must be specified, for instance with a coordinate of zenith_angle. If the radiation does not depend on direction, a standard name of isotropic radiance should be chosen instead."
vegetation area fraction	"""X_area_fraction"" means the fraction of horizontal area occupied by X. ""X_area"" means the horizontal area occupied by X within the grid cell. ""Vegetation"" means any plants e.g. trees, shrubs, grass."
vegetation carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area. ""Vegetation"" means any plants e.g. trees, shrubs, grass."
vertical component of ocean xy tracer diffusivity	"The vertical_component_of_ocean_xy_tracer_diffusivity means the vertical component of the diffusivity of tracers in the ocean due to lateral mixing. This quantity could appear in formulations of lateral diffusivity in which ""lateral"" does not mean ""iso-level"", e.g. it would not be used for isopycnal diffusivity. ""Tracer diffusivity"" means the diffusivity of heat and salinity due to motion which is not resolved on the grid scale of the model."
virtual salt flux correction	"The virtual_salt_flux_into_sea_water_due_to_process is the salt flux that would have the same effect on the sea surface salinity as water_flux_out_of_sea_water_due_to_process. Flux correction is also called ""flux adjustment"". A positive flux correction is downward i.e. added to the ocean.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
virtual salt flux into sea water	"The virtual_salt_flux_into_sea_water is the salt flux that would have the same effect on the sea surface salinity as the water_flux_out_of_sea_water. It includes the effects of precipitation, evaporation, river outflow, sea-ice and any water flux relaxation(s) and correction(s) that may have been applied. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
virtual salt flux into sea water due to evaporation	"The virtual_salt_flux_into_sea_water_due_to_process is the salt flux that would have the same effect on the sea surface salinity as water_flux_out_of_sea_water_due_to_process. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor.  (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".)  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
virtual salt flux into sea water due to newtonian relaxation	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The virtual_salt_flux_into_sea_water_due_to_newtonian_relaxation is the salt flux that would have the same effect on the sea surface salinity as water_flux_out_of_sea_water_due_to_newtonian_relaxation. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
virtual salt flux into sea water due to rainfall	"The virtual_salt_flux_into_sea_water_due_to_process is the salt flux that would have the same effect on the sea surface salinity as water_flux_out_of_sea_water_due_to_process. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase."
virtual salt flux into sea water due to sea ice thermodynamics	"The virtual_salt_flux_into_sea_water_due_to_process is the salt flux that would have the same effect on the sea surface salinity as water_flux_out_of_sea_water_due_to_process. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""Sea ice thermodynamics"" refers to the addition or subtraction of mass due to surface and basal fluxes, i.e., due to melting, sublimation and fusion."
virtual salt flux into sea water from rivers	"The virtual_salt_flux_into_sea_water_due_to_process is the salt flux that would have the same effect on the sea surface salinity as water_flux_out_of_sea_water_due_to_process. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
virtual temperature	The virtual temperature of air is the temperature at which the dry air constituent of a parcel of moist air would have the same density as the moist air at the same pressure.
visibility in air	The visibility is the distance at which something can be seen.
volume absorption coefficient in air due to dried aerosol particles	"The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with ""specific_"" instead of ""volume_"". The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths unless a coordinate of ""radiation_wavelength"" or ""radiation_frequency"" is included to specify the wavelength. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Dried_aerosol"" means that the aerosol sample has been dried from the ambient state, but that the dry state (relative humidity less than 40 per cent) has not necessarily been reached. To specify the relative humidity at which the sample was measured, provide a scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of ""relative_humidity"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
volume absorption coefficient of radiative flux in sea water	"Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with specific_ instead of volume_. The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength."
volume absorption coefficient of radiative flux in sea water due to dissolved organic matter	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with specific_ instead of volume_. The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength."
volume attenuated backwards scattering function in air	"Attenuation is the sum of absorption and scattering. Attenuation is sometimes called ""extinction"".  The attenuated backwards scattering function includes the effects of two-way attenuation by the medium between a radar source and receiver. The volume scattering function is the fraction of incident radiative flux scattered into unit solid angle per unit path length.  Backwards scattering refers to the sum of scattering into all backward angles i.e. scattering_angle exceeding pi/2 radians. A scattering_angle should not be specified with this quantity."
volume attenuated backwards scattering function in air assuming no aerosol or cloud	"Attenuation is the sum of absorption and scattering. Attenuation is sometimes called ""extinction"". The attenuated backwards scattering function includes the effects of two-way attenuation by the medium between a radar source and receiver. The volume scattering function is the fraction of incident radiative flux scattered into unit solid angle per unit path length. Backwards scattering refers to the sum of scattering into all backward angles i.e. scattering_angle exceeding pi/2 radians. A scattering_angle should not be specified with this quantity. A phrase ""assuming_condition"" indicates that the named quantity is the value which would obtain if all aspects of the system were unaltered except for the assumption of the  circumstances specified by the condition. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself."
volume attenuation coefficient of downwelling radiative flux in sea water	"Downwelling radiation is radiation from above. It does not mean ""net downward"". Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. When thought of as being incident on a surface, a radiative flux is sometimes called ""irradiance"". In addition, it is identical with the quantity measured by a cosine-collector light-meter and sometimes called ""vector irradiance"". In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with specific_ instead of volume_. The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength. Attenuation is the sum of absorption and scattering. Attenuation is sometimes called ""extinction"". Also called ""diffuse"" attenuation, the attenuation of downwelling radiative flux refers to the decrease with decreasing height or increasing depth of the downwelling component of radiative flux, regardless of incident direction."
volume backwards scattering coefficient in air due to dried aerosol particles	"The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with specific_ instead of volume_. Backwards scattering refers to the sum of scattering into all backward angles i.e. scattering_angle exceeds pi/2 radians. A scattering_angle should not be specified with this quantity. The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Dried_aerosol"" means that the aerosol sample has been dried from the ambient state, but that the dry state (relative humidity less than 40 per cent) has not necessarily been reached. To specify the relative humidity at which the sample was measured, provide a scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of ""relative_humidity"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
volume backwards scattering coefficient of radiative flux in sea water	"Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with specific_ instead of volume_. The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength. Scattering of radiation is its deflection from its incident path without loss of energy. Backwards scattering refers to the sum of scattering into all backward angles i.e. scattering_angle exceeding pi/2 radians. A scattering_angle should not be specified with this quantity."
volume beam attenuation coefficient of radiative flux in sea water	"Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with specific_ instead of volume_. The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength. Attenuation is the sum of absorption and scattering. Attenuation is sometimes called ""extinction"". Beam attenuation refers to the decrease of radiative flux along the direction of the incident path. It is distinguished from attenuation of the downwelling component of radiative flux from any incident direction, also called ""diffuse"" attenuation."
volume beam attenuation coefficient of radiative flux in sea water corrected for pure water attenuance	"Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength. Attenuation is the sum of absorption and scattering. Attenuation is sometimes called ""extinction"". Beam attenuation refers to the decrease of radiative flux along the direction of the incident path. It is distinguished from attenuation of the downwelling component of radiative flux from any incident direction, also called ""diffuse"" attenuation. The phrase ""corrected for pure water attenuance"" means the attenuation coefficient has been adjusted/calibrated to remove the influence of absorption/scattering by the water itself. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with specific_ instead of volume_."
volume extinction coefficient in air due to ambient aerosol particles	"The volume extinction coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length. Extinction is the sum of absorption and scattering, sometimes called ""attenuation"". ""Extinction"" is the term most commonly used at optical wavelengths whereas ""attenuation"" is more often used at radio and radar wavelengths. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exists in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
volume extinction coefficient in air due to cloud particles	"The volume extinction coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length. Extinction is the sum of absorption and scattering, sometimes called ""attenuation"". ""Extinction"" is the term most commonly used at optical wavelengths whereas ""attenuation"" is more often used at radio and radar wavelengths. The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Cloud particles"" means suspended liquid or ice water droplets. A coordinate of radiation_wavelength or radiation_frequency should be included to specify either the wavelength or frequency."
volume fraction of clay in soil	"""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
volume fraction of condensed water in soil	"""Condensed water"" means liquid and ice. ""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
volume fraction of condensed water in soil at critical point	"""Condensed water"" means liquid and ice. ""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  When soil moisture equals or exceeds the critical point evapotranspiration takes place at the potential rate and is controlled by the ambient meteorological conditions (temperature, wind, relative humidity).  Evapotranspiration is the sum of evaporation and plant transpiration.  Potential evapotranspiration is the rate at which evapotranspiration would occur under ambient conditions from a uniformly vegetated area when the water supply is not limiting."
volume fraction of condensed water in soil at field capacity	"""Condensed water"" means liquid and ice. ""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. The field capacity of soil is the maximum content of water it can retain against gravitational drainage."
volume fraction of condensed water in soil at wilting point	"""Condensed water"" means liquid and ice. ""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y. The wilting point of soil is the water content below which plants cannot extract sufficient water to balance their loss through transpiration."
volume fraction of condensed water in soil pores	"""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y.  ""Condensed water"" means liquid and ice.  ""Volume_fraction_of_condensed_water_in_soil_pores"" is the ratio of the volume of condensed water in soil pores to the volume of the pores themselves."
volume fraction of frozen water in soil	"""frozen_water"" means ice. ""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
volume fraction of oxygen in sea water	"""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
volume fraction of sand in soil	"""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
volume fraction of silt in soil	"""Volume fraction"" is used in the construction volume_fraction_of_X_in_Y, where X is a material constituent of Y."
volume mixing ratio of oxygen at stp in sea water	"""ratio_of_X_to_Y"" means X/Y. ""stp"" means standard temperature (0 degC) and pressure (101325 Pa)."
volume scattering coefficient in air due to ambient aerosol particles	"The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with ""specific_"" instead of ""volume_"". The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths unless a coordinate of ""radiation_wavelength"" or ""radiation_frequency"" is included to specify the wavelength. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Ambient_aerosol"" means that the aerosol is measured or modelled at the ambient state of pressure, temperature and relative humidity that exist in its immediate environment. ""Ambient aerosol particles"" are aerosol particles that have taken up ambient water through hygroscopic growth. The extent of hygroscopic growth depends on the relative humidity and the composition of the particles. To specify the relative humidity at which the quantity described by the standard name applies, provide a scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of ""relative_humidity"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
volume scattering coefficient in air due to dried aerosol particles	"The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with ""specific_"" instead of ""volume_"". The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths unless a coordinate of ""radiation_wavelength"" or ""radiation_frequency"" is included to specify the wavelength. ""Aerosol"" means the system of suspended liquid or solid particles in air (except cloud droplets) and their carrier gas, the air itself. ""Dried_aerosol"" means that the aerosol sample has been dried from the ambient state before sizing, but that the dry state (relative humidity less than 40 per cent) has not necessarily been reached. To specify the relative humidity at which the sample was measured, provide a scalar coordinate variable with the standard name of ""relative_humidity"". The specification of a physical process by the phrase ""due_to_"" process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase."
volume scattering coefficient of radiative flux in sea water	"Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The volume scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is the fractional change of radiative flux per unit path length due to the stated process. Coefficients with canonical units of m2 s-1 i.e. multiplied by density have standard names with specific_ instead of volume_. The scattering/absorption/attenuation coefficient is assumed to be an integral over all wavelengths, unless a coordinate of radiation_wavelength is included to specify the wavelength. Scattering of radiation is its deflection from its incident path without loss of energy. The (range of) direction(s) of scattering can be specified by a coordinate of scattering_angle."
volume scattering function of radiative flux in sea water	"Radiative flux is the sum of shortwave and longwave radiative fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. Scattering of radiation is its deflection from its incident path without loss of energy. The volume scattering function is the fraction of incident radiative flux scattered into unit solid angle per unit path length. The (range of) direction(s) of scattering can be specified by a coordinate of scattering_angle."
water evaporation amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".)"
water evaporation amount from canopy	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases. ""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".)"
water evaporation flux	"Water means water in all phases. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".) In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. Unless indicated in the cell_methods attribute, a quantity is assumed to apply to the whole area of each horizontal grid box. Previously, the qualifier where_type was used to specify that the quantity applies only to the part of the grid box of the named type.  Names containing the where_type qualifier are deprecated and newly created data should use the cell_methods attribute to indicate the horizontal area to which the quantity applies."
water evaporation flux from canopy	"""Water"" means water in all phases. ""Canopy"" means the plant or vegetation canopy. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".) In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. Unless indicated in the cell_methods attribute, a quantity is assumed to apply to the whole area of each horizontal grid box. Previously, the qualifier where_type was used to specify that the quantity applies only to the part of the grid box of the named type.  Names containing the where_type qualifier are deprecated and newly created data should use the cell_methods attribute to indicate the horizontal area to which the quantity applies."
water evaporation flux from soil	"""Water"" means water in all phases. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".) In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux correction	"""Water"" means water in all phases. Flux correction is also called ""flux adjustment"". A positive flux correction is downward i.e. added to the ocean. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux into sea water	"""Water"" means water in all phases. The water flux into sea water is the freshwater entering as a result of precipitation, evaporation, river inflow, sea ice effects and water flux relaxation and correction (if applied). In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux into sea water due to sea ice thermodynamics	"The water flux into sea water is the freshwater entering as a result of precipitation, evaporation, river inflow, sea ice effects and water flux correction (if applied).  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity  named by omitting the phrase.  ""Sea ice thermodynamics"" refers to the addition or subtraction of mass due to surface and basal fluxes, i.e., due to melting, sublimation and fusion."
water flux into sea water from icebergs	"The water flux into sea water is the freshwater entering as a result of precipitation, evaporation, river inflow, sea ice effects and water flux correction (if applied).  The water flux into sea water from icebergs is due to the melting of the iceberg. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux into sea water from land ice	"""Land ice"" means glaciers, ice-caps and ice-sheets resting on bedrock and also includes ice-shelves. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics. The water flux into sea water from land ice is the freshwater entering the ocean as a result of runoff from the surface and base of the ice and melting from the ice shelf base and vertical ice front. For an area-average, the cell_methods attribute should be used to specify whether the average is over the area of the whole grid cell or the area of the ocean portion only."
water flux into sea water from rivers	"""Water"" means water in all phases. The water flux or volume transport into sea water from rivers is the inflow to the ocean, often applied to the surface in ocean models. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux into sea water from rivers and surface downward water flux	"""Water"" means water in all phases, including frozen i.e. ice and snow.  ""Downward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed downward (negative upward).  The surface water flux is the result of precipitation and evaporation.  The water flux into sea water is the freshwater entering as a result of precipitation, evaporation, river inflow, sea ice effects and water flux correction (if applied).  The water flux or volume transport into sea water from rivers is the inflow to the ocean, often applied to the surface in ocean models.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics.  The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
water flux into sea water without flux correction	"Water means water in all phases. The water_flux_into_sea_water_without_flux_correction  is the freshwater entering as a result of precipitation, evaporation, river inflow and sea ice effects.  The total water flux including any flux relaxation(s) or correction(s) is described by the standard name water_flux_into_sea_water.  In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux out of sea ice and sea water	"""Water"" means water in all phases.  The water_flux_out_of_sea_ice_and_sea_water is the freshwater  leaving the ocean as a result of precipitation, evaporation, river outflow and any water flux relaxation(s) and correction(s) that may have been applied. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux out of sea water	"The quantity water_flux_out_of_sea_water is the quantity with  standard name water_flux_into_sea_water multiplied by -1. ""Water"" means water in all phases. The water flux out of sea water is the freshwater leaving as a result of precipitation, evaporation, river outflow, sea-ice and any water flux relaxation(s) and correction(s) that may have been applied. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux out of sea water due to newtonian relaxation	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. The water_flux_out_of_sea_water_due_to_newtonian_relaxation is the freshwater leaving as a result of the Newtonian relaxation of the sea surface salinity. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water flux out of sea water due to sea ice thermodynamics	"The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. ""Water"" means water in all phases. The water flux out of sea water is the freshwater leaving the sea water.  ""Sea ice thermodynamics"" refers to the addition or subtraction of sea ice mass due to surface and basal fluxes. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water potential evaporation amount	"""Amount"" means mass per unit area. ""Water"" means water in all phases. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".) Potential evaporation is the rate at which evaporation would take place under unaltered ambient conditions (temperature, relative humidity, wind, etc.) if the supply of water were unlimited, as if from an open water surface."
water potential evaporation flux	"""Water"" means water in all phases. Evaporation is the conversion of liquid or solid into vapor. (The conversion of solid alone into vapor is called ""sublimation"".) Potential evaporation is the rate at which evaporation would take place under unaltered ambient conditions (temperature, relative humidity, wind, etc.) if the supply of water were unlimited, as if from an open water surface. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water sublimation flux	"""Water"" means water in all phases. Sublimation is the conversion of solid into vapor. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
water surface height above reference datum	"'Water surface height above reference datum' means the height of the upper surface of a body of liquid water, such as sea, lake or river, above an arbitrary reference datum. The altitude of the datum should be provided in a variable with standard name water_surface_reference_datum_altitude. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
water surface reference datum altitude	"Altitude is the (geometric) height above the geoid, which is the reference geopotential surface. The geoid is similar to mean sea level. 'Water surface reference datum altitude' means the altitude of the arbitrary datum referred to by a quantity with standard name 'water_surface_height_above_reference_datum'. The surface called ""surface"" means the lower boundary of the atmosphere."
water vapor partial pressure in air	The partial pressure of a gaseous constituent of air is the pressure which it alone would exert with unchanged temperature and number of moles per unit volume.
water vapor saturation deficit in air	Water vapor saturation deficit is the difference between the saturationwater vapor partial pressure and the actual water vapor partial pressure in air.
water volume transport in river channel	"The water flux or volume transport in rivers is the amount of water flowing in the river channel and flood plain. ""Water"" means water in all phases."
water volume transport into sea water from rivers	"""Water"" means water in all phases. The water flux or volume transport into sea water from rivers is the inflow to the ocean, often applied to the surface in ocean models."
wave frequency	Frequency is the number of oscillations of a wave per unit time.
westward upward derivative of geopotential	"A quantity with standard name Xward_Yward_derivative_of_geopotential is a second spatial derivative of geopotential, P, in the direction specified by X and Y, i.e., d2P/dXdY. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. ""Westward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed westward (negative eastward). ""Upward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed upward (negative downward). ""component_derivative_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be ""northward"", ""southward"", ""eastward"", ""westward"", ""x"" or ""y"". The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, in the case where they are not true longitude and latitude."
westward westward derivative of geopotential	"A quantity with standard name Xward_Yward_derivative_of_geopotential is a second spatial derivative of geopotential, P, in the direction specified by X and Y, i.e., d2P/dXdY. Geopotential is the sum of the specific gravitational potential energy relative to the geoid and the specific centripetal potential energy. ""Westward"" indicates a vector component which is positive when directed westward (negative eastward). ""component_derivative_of_X"" means derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be ""northward"", ""southward"", ""eastward"", ""westward"", ""x"" or ""y"". The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, in the case where they are not true longitude and latitude."
wet bulb potential temperature	Wet bulb potential temperature is the temperature a parcel of air would have if moved dry adiabatically until it reaches saturation and thereafter moist adiabatically to sea level pressure.
wind from direction	"Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) In meteorological reports, the direction of the wind vector is usually (but not always) given as the direction from which it is blowing (wind_from_direction) (westerly, northerly, etc.). In other contexts, such as atmospheric modelling, it is often natural to give the direction in the usual manner of vectors as the heading or the direction to which it is blowing (wind_to_direction) (eastward, southward, etc.) ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming."
wind gust from direction	"The phrase ""from_direction"" is used in the construction X_from_direction and indicates the direction from which the velocity vector of X is coming. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north. A gust is a sudden brief period of high wind speed. In an observed time series of wind speed, the gust wind speed can be indicated by a cell_methods of ""maximum"" for the time-interval. In an atmospheric model which has a parametrised calculation of gustiness, the gust wind speed may be separately diagnosed from the wind speed. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name ""upward_air_velocity"".) In meteorological reports, the direction of the wind vector is usually (but not always) given as the direction from which it is blowing (""wind_from_direction"") (westerly, northerly, etc.). In other contexts, such as atmospheric modelling, it is often natural to give the direction in the usual manner of vectors as the heading or the direction to which it is blowing (""wind_to_direction"") (eastward, southward, etc.)."
wind mixing energy flux into sea water	"Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
wind speed	Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) The wind speed is the magnitude of the wind velocity.
wind speed of gust	Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) The wind speed is the magnitude of the wind velocity. A gust is a sudden brief period of high wind speed. In an observed timeseries of wind speed, the gust wind speed can be indicated by a cell_methods of maximum for the time-interval. In an atmospheric model which has a parametrised calculation of gustiness, the gust wind speed may be separately diagnosed from the wind speed.
wind speed shear	Speed is the magnitude of velocity. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) The wind speed is the magnitude of the wind velocity. Wind speed shear is the derivative of wind speed with respect to height.
wind to direction	"Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) In meteorological reports, the direction of the wind vector is usually (but not always) given as the direction from which it is blowing (wind_from_direction) (westerly, northerly, etc.). In other contexts, such as atmospheric modelling, it is often natural to give the direction in the usual manner of vectors as the heading or the direction to which it is blowing (wind_to_direction) (eastward, southward, etc.) ""to_direction"" is used in the construction X_to_direction and indicates the direction towards which the velocity vector of X is headed. The direction is a bearing in the usual geographical sense, measured positive clockwise from due north."
wood carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area."
wood debris carbon content	"""Content"" indicates a quantity per unit area.  ""Wood debris"" means dead organic matter composed of coarse wood.  It is distinct from litter."
x derivative of ocean rigid lid pressure	"""component_derivative_of_X"" means the derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be northward, southward, eastward, westward, x or y. The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid,  whether or not they are true longitude and latitude. x_derivative_of_ocean_rigid_lid_pressure means (d/dx) of the ocean surface pressure, as derived by a rigid lid approximation, keeping the other horizontal coordinate (y, presumably) constant."
x heat flux in sea water due to advection	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
x wind	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
x wind gust	"""x"" indicates a vector component along the grid x-axis, positive with increasing x. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) A gust is a sudden brief period of high wind speed. In an observed timeseries of wind speed, the gust wind speed can be indicated by a cell_methods of maximum for the time-interval. In an atmospheric model which has a parametrised calculation of gustiness, the gust wind speed may be separately diagnosed from the wind speed."
y derivative of ocean rigid lid pressure	"""component_derivative_of_X"" means the derivative of X with respect to distance in the component direction, which may be northward, southward, eastward, westward, x or y. The last two indicate derivatives along the axes of the grid, whether or not they are true longitude and latitude. y_derivative_of_ocean_rigid_lid_pressure means (d/dy) of the ocean surface pressure, as derived by a rigid lid approximation, keeping the other horizontal coordinate (x, presumably) constant."
y heat flux in sea water due to advection	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. The specification of a physical process by the phrase due_to_process means that the quantity named is a  single term in a sum of terms which together compose the general quantity named by omitting the phrase. In accordance with common usage in geophysical disciplines, ""flux"" implies per unit area, called ""flux density"" in physics."
y wind	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.)"
y wind gust	"""y"" indicates a vector component along the grid y-axis, positive with increasing y. Wind is defined as a two-dimensional (horizontal) air velocity vector, with no vertical component. (Vertical motion in the atmosphere has the standard name upward_air_velocity.) A gust is a sudden brief period of high wind speed. In an observed time series of wind speed, the gust wind speed can be indicated by a cell_methods of maximum for the time-interval. In an atmospheric model which has a parametrised calculation of gustiness, the gust wind speed may be separately diagnosed from the wind speed."
zenith angle	Zenith angle is the angle to the local vertical; a value of zero is directly overhead.

